 Thank you very much, Phoenix. We love to be back. We’ll be back a lot. We’re going to win that election. Thank you very much. Hello, Phoenix.
 It’s great being here in the great state of Arizona with thousands of hardworking patriots who believe in God, family, and country. Thank you. Thank you. And with your help this November, we are going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats and we are going to win Arizona in a landslide.
 It’s all over TV that the folks here tonight have helped a great World War II veteran into the arena. I don’t know if he knows it, but he’s right now the hottest celebrity in the world. I don’t know what’s going on here. He might even be hotter than Trump right now, I have to say. Did you see the scene? No, he’s all over television. Even fake news CNN him on. They say he’s a legitimate great hero of World War II. Erwin Julian. Irvin, thank you.
 And I asked my son Don to get a couple of hats and get some things, and give them to Erwin right now. And I want to thank you. Really, that’s a great honor. And thank you for the great job you’ve done. An American Patriot. Thank you very much. Thank you, Don. How did Don do tonight? Okay? He’s good. Good guy. And he loves this country.
 So this is truly an incredible time for America. We have the best economy, the most prosperous country that we’ve ever had, and the most powerful military anywhere in the world by far. Do you remember the good time we had a week ago at the State of the Union? You remember that, right? And that was my honor. But I proudly declared that we are in the midst of the great American comeback. Our country is stronger today than ever before.
 And after three years, of very unfair and ridiculous witch hunts and partisan Democrat crusades… It was the radical left’s pathetic attempts to nullify your ballots, poison our democracy, and overthrow our entire system of government. But guess what? They failed, and our poll numbers are higher today than they’ve ever been before. And we’re standing up to the defense of our Constitution, our freedom and democracy itself. We’re doing something that’s never been done in the history of our country. This movement has never taken place. Nothing like it ever. And the fake news can attest to it, because if they thought I was saying the wrong thing, it’d be out there immediately. It’d be all over the place. It’d be all over the place. Trump exaggerates. That’s terrible what he says. There has never been a movement like this, and it began very early. It began in 2016 with that wonderful, beautiful night. You remember that, right? That beautiful night in November. And we’re going to have another beautiful night in November. This time, it’s going to be November 3rd. Get ready, November 3rd. We’re coming. We’re coming.
 So we’re having great polls. You’re seeing the polls, except for some of the fake ones. And if I was treated fairly… Meaning, if you were treated fairly by the fake news, we’d be up 20 points higher in the polls. There wouldn’t even be a competitive election. Unfortunately, it’s probably going to be competitive. But I actually think we’re going to win by a lot, just like we did last time. But I really believe we’d be up 20 points. I mean, all they do is negative, negative, phony stuff. Russia, Russia, Russia. The impeachment hoax. That’s a hoax.
 But you know, we had great support from the Republican party in the House. It was 197 to nothing. And in the Senate, it was 52 and-a-half to a half. You know what the half was? A halfwit. And while the extreme left has been wasting America’s time with the hoaxes, we’ve been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border and lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion and creed. By the way, they turned away 21,000 people outside, so feel very good. Feel very good. We haven’t had an empty seat. You know what? We haven’t had… True. We haven’t had an empty seat, and this is a tribute to all of us because this is a movement like nobody’s ever seen. But we haven’t had an empty seat since your great… and this is a great first lady. Came down the escalator with me in Trump Tower a long time ago. We haven’t had an empty seat.
 From our rural communities to our inner cities, we’re expanding the blessings of America to all of our citizens. We added another 225,000 new jobs last month alone. You saw that, the geniuses. You saw that. You saw that last month. They were doing predictions on one of the shows. What do you think? Well, I think 60,000. What do you think? I think 100,000. What do you think? I think 84,000. These are the ones that tell you all about how to invest. What do you think? And then they came out 225,000, the market goes up again. 225,000. 225,000. So many manufacturing jobs. So many that frankly, we’re never going to come back. Remember, you need a magic wand, right? They came back. And remember this, we’re paying interest. The past administration didn’t pay interest. They pumped money in like it was candy. And we didn’t pump money in, we took money out. And not that I was happy about that, because I disagree with it. Because frankly, if we kept the old practice which frankly, some people could dispute one way or the other, we would have been up in my opinion, another 10,000 points in the Dow.
 And we’ve set 144 records on the stock market in three years, 144 records. 144 records. Record stock market. And you know what that means? That your 401Ks are up 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 100%. Guys come up to me. He said, “Mr. President, I just want to thank you. My wife used to look at me like I was a total loser, sir. Every year we lost money for years and years. She said what the hell is wrong with you, Henry? And this year sir, I’m up 92%. She loves to me again. She thinks I’m a genius.” 92% 401K. “She thinks I’m a genius, sir. She loves me again.” Shows what money can do, right? But that makes… And think of this. Seven million new jobs since we were elected, we were elected.
 And when I took over, ISIS was all over the place. And we immediately started. We have destroyed 100% of the ISIS caliphate. We have killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi is dead. And we just took out the world’s top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, ending his evil reign of terror forever. And the fake news doesn’t want to tell you that. They don’t want to tell you that. They don’t want to tell you. In fact, do you remember the dog? Great dog, Conan. When we took out, right? We love Conan. Conan’s a tough dog. But when we took out al-Baghdadi, Conan… Remember this? Conan got more publicity than President Trump. That’s okay. They were looking for al-Baghdadi for 16 years. We found him and we took him out. We killed another one last week. The head of Al-Qaeda. He was gone, dead. And America is respected again, respected like never before.
 We’re respected again. We’re no longer the laughingstock that gets taken advantage by every country, including by the way, our allies, who in many cases take a bigger advantage than our enemies. I will tell you that. They take big advantage, but not so much anymore. We’re winning. We’re winning like never before. Washington Democrats keep on losing their minds. They hate the fact that we’re winning. We’re winning big. We’re winning, winning, winning. And that is why millions of registered Democrat voters are leaving their party to join our movement. They’re joining our great Republican party in droves. You see it all the time. I just spoke to some of your leaders. He said, “This is unbelievable what’s happening. This is unbelievable.”
 You know, there have never been rallies like that. Sleepy Joe Biden the other day had 68 people. And now they have a new member of the crew, mini Mike. Mini Mike. No boxes, we call him no boxes. And I hear he’s getting pounded tonight. You know, he’s in a debate. I hear they’re pounding him. He spent $500 million so far, and I think he has 15 points. It just came out. Hey fake news, how many points does he have right now, 15? They won’t tell you the truth. They won’t tell you the truth. MSDNC, MSDNC is worse than CNN. They’re owned by a company called Comcast. You can have Comcast, a bunch of phonies. But MSDNC is worse than CNN, and they’re all pretty bad. You know, they just came out with a poll. They just came out with a poll a little while ago. Mini Mike was at 15, and crazy Bernie was at 31. That’s a lot. And mini Mike just spent $500 million. But the DNC is going to take it away from Bernie again. That’s okay, because we don’t care who the hell it is. We’re going to win. We’re going to win. We have to.
 Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
 Well let me tell you, these crooked politicians, they really took away three years from us. Because despite the fact and nobody disputes it, that we’ve done more in three years with the tax cuts and regulation cuts and the military and the choice and everything, we’ve done more than any administration in history. We’ve done more. But think of it, think of it. We did it with phony witch hunts. We did it with the impeachment hoax over our head the whole time. We did it under circumstances that should never ever happened to another President again. True. But with your energy and enthusiasm this November, we’re going to take back the House, we’re going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep the White House. So we’re thrilled to be joined tonight by some of the best, greatest. I love them. Leaders in America, Arizona leaders. I want to start. Come on up here, Governor Doug Ducey. Come on up here, Doug. Come on up here. You’re going to speak in a second.
 Also, I call them warriors because they fought like hell. They worked with our future Speaker of the House, Kevin McCarthy. But we have some of your great warriors. Paul Gosar, come up here, Paul. Come up here. Andy Biggs. Andy Biggs, head of the Freedom Caucus. Andy Biggs. David Schweikert. David, come up here. A big, big star. You know about that, Doug. She became this monster star. She looked with such indignation at the other side, such disgust, Debbie Lesko. He’ll be running some day. You said your grandson? Wow. He’ll be running someday. Arizona Senate President, you know who that is, right? Karen Fann. Come up, Karen. Arizona House Speaker, Rusty Bowers. Vice President of the Navajo nation, Myron Lizer. And Arizona Republican party State Chair, Kelly Ward. Kelly Ward, come up.
 And we have a lot of other leaders, but we’ve got to get back to speaking. Do me a favor before I introduce a very special guest, I’d like to ask your great Governor… You know, he won like by 16 points. It wasn’t even a contest. You know, I’m very competitive. I want to beat him. Will you please get out to the polls so we can beat him? But he’s tough to beat. Doug Ducey, say a couple of words, please. Please.
 Mr. President, we are going to keep Arizona red in 2020. We are going to return President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence to the White House. We are going to return Martha McSally to the United States Senate. And we are going to keep our Republican majorities in our congressional delegation and our state chambers.
 Mr. President, thank you for what you have done for the cause of life. For what you have done for our economy and reducing regulations. And for what you have done for the United States Supreme Court. We’re looking forward to working with you for four more years.
 Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
 These are great people, great people. Thank you very much. So you know, before I introduce somebody very important to all of us, to me… Also, I have to say with us tonight is an Arizona hockey great, a friend of mine. He’s a great golfer too. He’s a tough golfer. I’ll tell you, he’s tough to beat. He’s tough as hell. And if you beat him in golf, he’ll try and beat you physically. He doesn’t care. He was the toughest hockey player. He was one of these guys, he could beat you one way and if he couldn’t, he just beat them up, right? He’d beat him up. And he’s a friend of mine. He’s a great guy, Jeremy Roenik. Where’s Jeremy? Where is he? Thank you, Jeremy. He’s a winner. We’re also joined by Donald, Jr. and Kimberly. They’re great people, great. And RNC co-chairman, Tommy Hicks. And RNC finance chairman, also happens on a team called the Chicago Cubs, I shouldn’t tell you that… Todd Ricketts.
 So finally, it’s my great honor to introduce a tremendous person, a great fighter pilot. A lot of people don’t know that. She’s a great fighter pilot and a warrior Senate. She helped us so much during the impeachment hoax, she didn’t wobble one bit, Martha McSally. You know, Martha’s tough on the border. And she’s working with me to strengthen our military still further, and lower your prescription drug prices. We’re making a lot of progress. But her opponent, I have to say this Martha, a guy named Mark Kelly. Even the Democrats don’t like him much. He wants to raise your taxes, open your borders, give away free healthcare to illegal immigrants, and he wants to obliterate your second amendment. He wants to get rid of it. The radical liberal Democrats from California and Massachusetts, they’re pouring money into Kelly’s campaign, because they know that he’s a rubber stamp for crying Chuck Schumer, crying Chuck, and nervous Nancy wacko Pelosi. And we’re going to have a new Speaker. But that’s why Martha has my complete and total support and endorsement, and we have to all get out there and make sure that Martha McSally… She’s a warrior. Let me tell you, you don’t know. We don’t know. People don’t know, people. This one is tough as hell, and that’s what we need. Martha McSally.
 Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you Mr. President. Welcome back to the great state of Arizona. Let’s give it up. I just want to say, I have a message for the liberal hack media in the back. Arizona is going to vote in November to keep America great and send President Trump back to the White House. And Mr. President, I want you to know, I was right there on the floor in that amazing State of the Union address that you gave. It brought tears to my eyes at many places. You were honoring our veterans. You were reuniting families. It was extraordinary. But I heard your call. You said to put a bill on your desk that’s going to lower prescription drug prices, and I’m going to introduce a bill next week to get that done, to help all Americans lower the cost of drugs. Arizona is on fire, thanks to the leadership of President Trump, with Governor Doug Ducey, and the Republicans in the Senate in the House. People are living amazing. We are getting people off the sidelines. The economy is doing so great. We have so much more to do, but there’s so much at stake. My opponent said he would vote to convict and remove you from office and remove you from the 2020 ballot. What is that all about? And then he said last week, that he would support Bernie Sanders if he’s the nominee, and his socialist agenda. So Arizona is tired of investigations. They’re tired of obstruction. They don’t want socialism. They love our freedoms. And he is… Mark Kelly is flying on Bernie Sanders’ wing. And I’m flying on your wing, President Trump, and we’re going to win in November. God bless you all. Thank you.
 We’ll be back. Thank you Martha. Well, she’s right. How about that Congressman Al Green? We can’t beat him, so we have to impeach him. How about that? That’s not what our… as they call them, the founders. How many times did you hear the name, the founders? That’s not what the founders had in mind. But we’re going to have a big, big election victory. We’re working to-
 But we’re going to have a big, big election victory. We’re working together. I don’t think the Republican party has ever been more unified than it is right now. I really don’t believe so.
 So whatever you can do for Martha, we need her. It’s been so incredible. Thank you very much. Thank you for everything, Martha. I appreciate it. Thank you.
 Together we’re building the world’s most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society anywhere. We’re inclusive. This is the Republican party. We’re inclusive.
 Right here in… Right? You know that. Right here in America, right here in Arizona, we’ve created 240,000 new jobs right here. Including over 60,000 new manufacturing and construction jobs here. Nobody thought it was possible. You’ve had the best year that you’ve ever had. Arizona, you’ve had the best year, the most successful year that you’ve ever had in the history of the country. It’s the best year you’ve ever had. So I’m going to take all the credit away from your governor. I don’t care.
 No, we have a great team with Doug and everybody else, but you’ve had the greatest year. You know that, Doug, number one year in the history of your state. It’s an incredible achievement. Incredible achievement.
 I don’t know, this has to be pretty good stuff on the debate stage. We’ll talk about, “Well, you had the best… In many states, the best year they’ve ever had.” Then they said, “Let’s get a new president.” I don’t think that’s going to work so easily. The country’s had the best year it’s ever had. Let’s get a new president. Let’s put in crazy Bernie. Let’s go. Crazy Bernie.
 Unemployment has reached its slowest rate in over 51 years, half a century. The average unemployment rate for my administration… Think of this. The average, so we’re talking about now more than three years, is the lowest for any US president in recorded history.
 The unemployment rate among African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans has reached record lows, lowest in history. African American youth unemployment has reached an all time low in the history of our country. African American and Hispanic American poverty has plummeted to the lowest rate ever recorded.
 The unemployment rate for women has reached the lowest level in 71 years. Soon to be historic. And veterans’ unemployment has dropped to a record low. We’re working with our veterans, we’re taking care of our veterans like nobody’s ever taken care of our veterans. The unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached the lowest level in history. Workers without a high school diploma, you have a lot of them. They left high school. They said, “I should have finished.” They left. They can’t go back. They left. We’ve achieved the lowest unemployment rate without a diploma ever recorded in US history. Isn’t that great? They’re great numbers. Hispanic Americans right now, more than 500,000 own a home. More than 500,000 more own a home.
 And we’ve lifted 10 million people off of the welfare rolls. Think of that. 10 million people have come off of the welfare rolls. And happily. Not that we did anything. They have jobs and they love them. They’re making much more money and they love getting up and going for work. If they don’t like that job, they can get another one, because people are starving to get great employees right now. They’re starving to get great employees.
 Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage earners has increased by 47%, three times faster than the increase for the top 1%. Median income. Think of this. This is such a big deal. Median household income reached the highest level in the history of our country. Under President Bush, in eight years it went to $450 more. Under President Barack Hussein Obama, under a period of eight years, it went to $975. Under president Donald J. Trump… Did you ever hear of him? In only three years, including regulation cuts and tax cuts… Because the other ones raise taxes. We cut taxes by the record amount. It went to $10, 000 per family. A record. A record.
 That’s why our consumer right now, our people, they’re booming with cash. That’s one of the reasons our economy is doing so much better. China had the worst year in the last 67 years. Asia’s doing poorly. Europe is doing poorly. The United States is doing great. We’re doing the best we’ve ever done. The best we’ve ever done.
 To lift up forgotten communities that need investment, and these are really communities that need it the most, we created Opportunity Zones. We worked with Tim Scott, the great senator from South Carolina. His idea. He came in and saw me. I said, “Let’s give it a shot.” Nothing’s worked over the years, but this has really worked. Now jobs and investment are now pouring into 168 newly designated Opportunity Zones right here in Arizona alone. From Apache to Navajo and Maricopa Counties.
 We’re supporting working families by fighting pay. We are doing a job with paid family leave. We’re doing something that nobody’s ever done to this extent. Reducing the cost of childcare and giving 40 million American families an average of $2,200 in their pocket thanks to the Republican child tax credit.
 Our historic regulatory reduction campaign is restoring American liberty and cutting through job, killing red tape like nobody has ever cut regulations before. We’ve ended the war on American energy, lowering utility bills, reducing prices at the pump, and eliminating our reliance on hostile foreign suppliers. For the first time, America is now energy independent. Such beautiful words. Energy independent.
 We fought wars. We did everything we could. We used to take the straits and everybody else benefited. We’d them clear so that other countries could take oil from the Middle East with… That nobody paid us. Now they’re starting to pay us a lot of money, folks. They took advantage of us. But we have everything we need right now. We have made such progress in the last three years with pipelines. The Keystone Pipeline, Keystone XL. I approved it. The Dakota Access Pipeline. I approved it. 48,000 jobs.
 We’re reversing decades of calamitous trade policies. The worst trade deals any human being has ever seen. I said, “Who made these deals?” The worst, stupidest deals I’ve ever seen. They were good for other nations. If you like other nations, that’s great. But we’re now putting America first. It’s very simple. For years, Washington politicians took money from lobbyists, global corporations, and really, the most corrupt special interests anybody’s ever seen. To ship our jobs and our factories to other countries. We lost our taxes, we lost our workers, we lost our companies, and we did nothing about it. Now we’ve done a lot about it because companies are pouring back in.
 America lost one in four manufacturing jobs following the twin disasters of NAFTA, the worst deal ever made, worst trade deal ever made, and one that was almost as bad and gave China an entrance into being a rocket ship when they entered the World Trade, WTO. One of the worst deals that we participated in this. By the way, we just won $7.5 billion in a lawsuit with WTO. We weren’t winning anything.
 We weren’t winning anything, but they said, “I think this guy’s going to pull out.” They treated us so unfairly. We were always in the minority position. I mean, who the hell negotiated these deals? But they look at us and they say, “Look, if we’re not treated fairly, we’re gone.” All of a sudden, we’re winning all these cases. But we just won 7.5 billion. 7.5 billion. Did you know that, Doug? 7.5 billion.
 But under this administration, the great betrayal is over. America’s no longer for sale. America is no longer for sale. Those days are over.
 Two generations of politicians came and went promising to replace NAFTA. How many times have you heard we’re going to replace NAFTA? Probably the number one reason I ran for office. Are we glad I ran for office? I think so.
 It’s funny, I was watching the different… I find it fascinating. I’m watching the different returns coming in and I’m watching as much as I can of this stuff. I love it. We all love it. If you don’t love it, you’re not going to do it very well. The crazy New York Times, which was a dead newspaper when I ran, it was dead as a doornail. A month before I ran, Doug, I held up a New York Times, it was like what you get thrown in your face at a supermarket. It was a thing. It just flew away. There was nothing. Now it’s doing very well. But you know what? Someday we won’t be here. When we’re not, those papers are in big trouble. But this thing was a dead newspaper.
 But I was watching and they had an article this weekend about people that spent their own money and how they’re doing. They have Mini Mike has spent $411 million. It’s a question mark, how’s he going to… I’ll tell you how he’s going to do. He’s probably not going to get the democratic nomination. That’s how he’s going to do. But Mini Mike, $411. Then they had this idiot, Steyer. We call him impeachment Steyer. How did that work out, Steyer? He’s another beauty. The guy worked… He spent 210 million. He got one-third of 1% in Iowa. In New Hampshire he did much better. He got less than 3%. Guy’s in there for like 250 million. How did it work out, Steyer? You jerk. I never even heard of him. I never even heard of him. I turn on every time… For years, I’m turning on… Impeach him. They don’t even know why. They never say why. They don’t have any reason. Impeach the president. This guy spent a fortune on this stuff, so it worked out pretty good.
 But anyway, so then I go and I look. It has Mini Mike’s… Question marks. I can give you the answer, but right now they have to have a question mark, right? Then they go down and they had other people. Some of them I like. They have Ross Perot, who honestly… It was a tough day for Bush when he joined the campaign. Because Clinton didn’t win. Ross Perot took away 19% of the votes. Didn’t Clinton get 41 or 43%? Give me a break. But that’s okay. Whatever.
 But they had Ross Perot spent like 100 million, which is probably double if you bring it up to today’s dollars. Then they have different people. A friend of mine who ran, Steve Forbes, he ran twice. He was in for a lot. Then they had Donald Trump. Now, this is your own money. This is your own money. I said I’d spend a lot of money on my primaries. We’ll see how the hell we do. It’s amazing. Once you win, money comes in. It comes in pretty fast. What’s that all about? But so in the middle they had Trump, and then they had four or five that were behind me. Lot of money spent. Loss, loss, loss, loss, loss. But in the middle they have Donald Trump. It didn’t say 500 million, and it didn’t say 250 like this Steyer guy. It didn’t say… It said 70 million of my own money. I spent 70. It said, “Donald Trump won the presidency of the United States.” Right? We won.
 My father would teach me, if you could spend less and win, that’s better than spending a lot and winning. Crooked Hillary spent at least three times more than we did and lost.
 Crooked as hell. She’s crooked as hell. We have a double-sided justice. It’s very unfair what’s going on. Very unfair. But let’s see how it all works out, folks. Let’s see how it all works out. I hope you’re going to be happy. I hope you’re going to be happy, because there are a lot of dishonest slimeballs out there. Dishonest scum. Dirty cops, a lot of dirty cops.
 By the way, the FBI, those guys in that are incredible. But the ones on top, they were absolute scum. What they were trying to do, if that happened to Obama, or a Democrat, or especially a liberal Democrat, they’d be in jail for 50 years and it would have taken place two years ago already. They spied on our campaign. Remember that. After they spied, we won. Then after we won, they tried to get us out of office. It’s never happened before in the history of our country, and we can’t let that happen. We can never ever excuse it. We can never let them get away with that.
 Never let them get away with it. But we keep our promises that we work hard and our economy is great. The last month, we ended the NAFTA… Look, you saw it. NAFTA catastrophe. That’s what it was. We ended that catastrophe. Again, I really ran because of NAFTA. I said, “How stupid.” All over the place. In your state, but you go to New England, empty factories, empty buildings. Still you have empty buildings. We lost so much. We lost 60,000 factories and plants. I signed that brand new, beautiful US-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law.
 The USMCA is a gigantic victory for farmers, and ranchers, and manufacturers all across the great state of Arizona. By the way, for people with the small farms and small businesses, if you love your children, you can now leave your companies, you can leave your farm, you can leave your ranch to your children, and you don’t have to to pay, they don’t pay a death tax. They don’t pay an inheritance tax. A big deal. That’s a big deal. So if you love your children, it’s good. If you don’t love your children, it doesn’t matter. Don’t leave it to them, if you don’t love. If your children are no good to you, don’t give them anything. Let them go out and work like hell. No, if you love…
 Does anybody in this incredible audience… Man, this is a big building. Does anybody not love their children? Anybody? Do I have a hand? Do I have a… There’s a hand. You’ve got to be kidding. You’ve got to be kidding. So then you don’t care about the tax. Okay, don’t worry about it. He says, “No, I don’t care about that one.” Well, that’s good. You look like a nice guy too. He’s tough. You’d love to be his kid, wouldn’t you?
 But I also took the strongest ever action to confront China’s massive theft of American jobs. Our strategy worked. Last month, we signed a groundbreaking trade agreement with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property, and boost American exports. China will invest $250 billion a year into the United States and buy our products and create jobs. Nothing like that has ever happened before. After years of building up other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. That’s the way we want it. We are finally putting our country first. We are putting America first.
 On no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than immigration. You know it almost better than anybody. Anybody, Doug. You know it better than anybody, what they’ve done on your border, but we’re stopping that border. That border is clogged, and we’ve started the big wall right in Arizona. We build a lot of wall. That’s a big one. That’s a big one. Top of the line.
 Before I came into office, the far left’s policy of open borders allowed deadly drugs to flow freely into our country, poisoning our children. Including, as you know very well right here in Arizona, Washington Democrats put the needs of illegal immigrants before the wellbeing of American citizens. They want to let anyone from around the world simply walk across the border. Then they want to give them a lifetime of free welfare, healthcare, everything. They want to give them everything. For a long period of time, they were treated… You know this before I came. They were treated far better than our veterans were treated. Now our veterans are treated great. True.
 Illegal immigration costs Arizona taxpayers more than $2 billion every year. Two billion you’re paying. Nearly 20% of Arizona’s annual budget in general funds goes toward this big problem.
 For the amount of money Washington Democrats want to spend supporting illegal immigrants, we could rebuild our cities all throughout America, which is what we should be doing. Under my administration, we are finally taking care of our own citizens, including millions and millions of legal immigrants who follow our laws, pay their taxes, and are entitled to a government that protects their families and their communities.
 Every day, Democrats’ open borders policies are harming and killing innocent lives. In Arizona alone last year, ICE officers arrested over 4,500 criminal aliens charged or convicted of dangerous offenses including robbery, rape, and murder.
 Right here in Phoenix, an illegal alien chased a man through a parking lot and shot him in cold blood, then walked over to the victim and shot him four more times right in the face as he laid dying in the street. This savage animal had previously been deported after serving six years in prison. He was in prison six years. He was there six years and nobody wants to talk about it. They want to protect them.
 Last year in Tucson, another illegal alien was sentenced to 10 years for repeatedly raping a vulnerable young woman. Yet left wing politicians oppose all detention of illegal aliens, even convicted criminals, and they support deadly sanctuary cities that release these criminal aliens directly into America’s communities. Thankfully, Arizona has banned sanctuary cities. With a Republican majority in Congress, we will ban them in every state in America.
 I’ll tell you what, in California… I just left California. I started off with a speech in Nevada at 7:30 in the morning. I then went to California, made two speeches. I then went someplace else. I said, “Am I finished?” No, you’ve got to go to Arizona tonight and speak in front of like 25,000 people. I said, “That’s okay. That’s okay.” I said, “That’s okay.” No, I said, “That’s okay,” because I love this unbelievable energy in this crowd. But you know what? Honestly, there’s tremendous energy in our nation. There’s tremendous energy in our nation. Greatest nation in the world.
 Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we have reduced illegal border crossings for eight straight months in a row, which will soon be a record. Illegal crossings are down 75% since last spring. The month of January saw the fewest illegal border crossings in two years. And we’ve ended catch and release, a horrible Democrat policy that we got terminated.
 Border patrol, great people, have seized the largest amount of deadly narcotics ever recorded in the history of our country this year. We’ve deported record numbers of gang members, including the worst gang of all, MS-13. Thousands and thousands of people have been thrown the hell out of our country.
 We’ve done more to secure the border than any administration in history. We’re building the wall, as I said, faster than ever. It will soon be almost one new mile a day. We’re looking for that.
 Washington Democrats have never been more extreme, taking cues from crazy Bernie Sanders. How’s he doing tonight? 132 congressional Democrats have signed up for Bernie’s healthcare takeover of the world. Think of this, 180 million Americans are going to lose healthcare coverage under this plan. But if you don’t mind, I’m not going to criticize it tonight. Let them keep going and I’ll start talking about it about two weeks out from the election. Okay? Because I don’t want him to change. Please don’t change.
 Same with the Green New Deal. I don’t want to talk about it, Doug, tonight. I don’t want to talk about it.
 I came up with the name Pocahontas. Too early. But fortunately, she’s self-destructed anyway. Did you ever see a phony like that? She’s a phony. She lost because she couldn’t keep it straight on her own heritage. She said she was an Indian. I said, ” I have more Indian blood in me than you have, and I have none.” She said, “Oh,” and she panicked. She panicked, and she had a test. You know the result, 1/124th. I think I win the bet. Somewhere along the line, I think I win.
 No, she… I did it too early. I would have saved it, but I guess it was effective. She’s essentially gone-zo, so… One of those things. While the socialist Democrats are try-
 … one of those things. While the socialist Democrats are trying to destroy American healthcare and your social security, my administration is protecting your social security, your Medicare, and is fighting to give you great healthcare. And that’s what we’re getting. That’s right.
 One of the big secrets. The Democrats won’t let us say it. They want to keep that as quiet as possible. Look what they gave you, the worst healthcare. And what we’ve done, we’ve gotten rid of things that nobody could believe that was so bad for you. Everybody was happy with defending your right to keep your doctor and plan of your choice. We’re making healthcare better and much, much cheaper while premiums more than doubled in the last five years before I took office, we are now offering plans that are up to 60% less expensive than they were, and it’s better healthcare. A lot of people don’t know this. People don’t know this. They think that’s their issue. It’s not. They failed on healthcare. We’re protecting people with preexisting conditions, and we always will. And by the way, we’re trying to get rid of Obamacare, but we’re managing it incredibly, but we’re trying to get rid so we can give you a great healthcare plan and protect preexisting conditions. Remember that. We’re trying to get rid of it, but while we’re having it, we’re managing it really much better than they did. Remember they built the $5 billion website? Remember that? It was supposed to cost $5 million. It cost $5 billion. $5 billion. I mean, you could get a kid out of high school.
 I have a son. He’s a young boy, 13. He uses a computer. He could have given them a healthcare site. I would say he would have charged them $100, Barron Trump, and it would’ve worked. He’s so good. “Hi dad. How you doing, dad? How’s it going?” Bing, bing, bong. I said, “Don’t play with that while you’re talking to me.” “What’s going on, dad?” These kids are incredible, right? The kids, they make us look like babies with that. But he could have given you a great site for about $2. They spent $5 billion on a site that never worked. By the way, speaking of that, how did they do with their vote count in Iowa?
 And I hear, I hear, I don’t want to say it. I don’t want to jinx them because, of course, I want them to do well, but I do. We don’t have anything. Nobody’s running against us in so many states. It’s sort of nice. We can save the thunder, right? But I hear that in Nevada. I’m hearing bad things about their vote count. I hear a lot of bad things are happening, like they don’t know what the hell they’re doing. I turned on the other night, Iowa, I wanted to see … And by the way, we set a record in the history of Iowa. We had more votes than anybody’s ever had as an incumbent president. Same thing in New Hampshire. It’s a good sign. It’s a good sign. By a lot. By the way, by a lot.
 But I’m hearing that, and I hope this isn’t the case because I’d like to find out who the hell won. We still don’t know who won in Iowa. I heard coming over here they’re still working on the count. No, no, no. He said, “You won.” Yeah, I think we did win. I think we did. Very good. That’s very good. I have to thank you, that one. That’s very good. No, we did win. Look, we are winning. We’re winning big. We have fake polls out there. These guys do fake polls. They are fake polls.
 I had a poll. It’s just like it was in 2016. I’d hear these polls. I’d hear women didn’t like me, and I did great with women. I hear everyone didn’t like me. Nobody liked me. Nobody liked me. And then we won. Thank you, women. Nobody liked me 2016. No, no, I hear that. Remember, women didn’t like him, and at the end of that he did great with women. He did great with this. He did great with everybody. We did great with everybody. Remember, 306 to 223. That’s a slaughter. That’s a slaughter. Remember, they said he cannot get, they used the word path. There is no path, right, to 270?
 I was at 269 if I did great, but they said there’s no chance. But I was at 269, so I went to Maine. I love Maine. I went to Maine. Maine’s cut in half. And one Maine has one. I went there four or five times. People are great. I won it. And they were right. There is no path to 270, but there was a path to 306. These people. These people. There is no path. That’s right, Doug. They said there is no path, the fake news media. “There is no path for Donald Trump.” And then they said the evening of the election, “It’s going to be a really short night for Donald Trump. Thank God, we got rid of this guy.”
 Because they did the exit polls going out, right? And I was even told, but a lot of people didn’t want to talk about it. The highest number in history of people that said very nasty language, but I’m not going to use that name because you’ll kill me if I use it. So I won’t use it. It’s a much better story if I use it because that’s the truth. That’s what they said. “How did you vote?” Usually, they say, “I voted for Clinton,” or, “I voted for Trump.” Right? “How’d you vote?” “None of your business.” See, I’m being nice, right? I’ll keep it that way because otherwise we’ll ruin the whole evening. They’ll say, “His language,” right? Even this tough guy in the front says, “I agree.” “How did you vote?” “No, I don’t want to tell you.” “How did you vote?” “None of your damn business. I’m not going to tell you.” “How did you vote?” “I’m not … ”
 And it was like this massive number, right? Massive. So everybody, they just didn’t count that. So they said numbers are looking unbelievably well for crooked Hillary Clinton. They’re looking unbelievable. This is going to be a very short evening for Donald Trump. We finally will be rid of this guy. And then the numbers started coming in. The numbers started coming in, and it started with the great state of Florida. Donald Trump has won the state of Florida. And then that beautiful convention center, the most beautiful stage I’ve ever seen.
 And they knew something was going on because they didn’t pay the final payment for the fireworks two weeks before. Right? In fact, I went to the fireworks company, and I said, “I’ll give you five cents on the dollar for your fireworks,” even though they were no way near where my area was. We were at a hotel in Midtown. We liked the location better than where she chose, but they built the most … we remember that beautiful stage.
 It was shaped like the United States of America. And by the end, it didn’t look too good. Did you ever see more unhappy people? So they go, “Donald Trump has won the great state of Florida. They go, “Whoa, whoa, whoa.” They outspent me like five to one. Only negative ads. They’re all negative. So by the time people got into the voters booth, they only knew one thing. She hated Donald Trump, but they said, “What the hell does she stand for? What does she do?” Every ad was a negative ad. So it tells you negative ads, at least against me, aren’t so good. They can be effective. But I think they spent like $ 2 billion on negative ads. Everything was negative. So nobody knew what the hell she spent.
 You know, her husband said she was going to lose. Her husband’s a professional. Her husband said, “You better go to Michigan because I was there and they got a Trump/Pence sign on every lawn I’ve ever seen. You better go to Wisconsin, Hillary. You better go to Wisconsin.” She said, “No, we haven’t lost Wisconsin in 36 years”. “No, no, Hillary, you got to go there. I’m telling you, I don’t like what I saw.” “No, what do you know?” He’s a professional politician. She wasn’t. It’s one of those little problems in life. So then it came in, and then we won South Carolina. We won North Carolina. Right? And we were leading Pennsylvania by so much that if I lost, remember at 2% of the vote left, if I lost every single vote, I win by a lot.
 They refused, the fake news refused to call it. I kept saying, “We won Pennsylvania. Why don’t they call it?” It was very late in the evening when they called it because they are fake, they’re crooked. They are fake. And I said, “Why don’t they call Pennsylvania?” But some beautiful things happened. And by the way, Ohio, we won by one of the largest margins ever. The great, great, great state of Ohio. Remember? Remember, they used to say a year before the election, they said, “Well, nobody can win. Nobody, unless you win the great state of Ohio.” And we won the great state of Ohio, and we won it big. We knew we were going to win it. And now we’re up a lot more than we were up even then, because you know why? We’re bringing back jobs. We’re bringing back factories. Everybody’s working. Nobody’s ever had a better year than we’ve been having. And we’ve been doing it for a long time, right? Almost from the beginning.
 And don’t let them try and take credit, because if they came in, we would have ended up in a massive recession or worse, the D word, depression. We would have been, because they were going to put more and more and more regulations on. And I’ll tell you, maybe bigger than even the tax cuts, and I did it sooner, were the regulation cuts. We freed up our nation to go back to work. True.
 So then we won Wisconsin, and then we won Michigan because those companies, now they’re pouring back in. The auto companies are pouring back in, and Wisconsin’s doing great with the farmers that Canada was taking. You know, Canada was charging our farmers 287% tariffs for dairy products. Okay? So what happens is this, we’re working on healthcare. We’re fighting to stop surprise medical billing. I just signed an executive order imposing price transparency because when providers are required to show their prices, those same prices fall very fast. We’ve approved a record number of affordable new generic drugs, which are just as good as the brand drugs, but they cost a tiny fraction. We’ve totally transformed veteran’s healthcare, including getting long-sought VA choice and VA accountability, which they said could not be done. And we passed the spectacular right to try. So if you’re in trouble, and I hope nobody in this massive arena’s in trouble, but if you’re in trouble, you can go and get whatever the new drug or whatever where we have the best doctors, best hospital, best labs. You get it. And the luck we are having, we are saving so many lives. It’s incredible what’s happening. People would go to Europe. They’d go to Asia. If they had no money, they’d go home and die. Now they have the right to use our drugs before they’re approved. Think of that. Before they’re approved. And we’re very importantly combating the opioid epidemic. Drug overdose deaths. The overdose deaths have declined for the first time in 34 years, and life expectancy is rising again in our nation.
 We’ve launched bold new initiatives combating kidney disease and Alzheimer’s disease. We’re making tremendous progress, and we’re pursuing new advances in neo-medical research. Think of that, neonatal research, the numbers are incredible. What’s happened is incredible, to care for America’s youngest patients and breaking all records in doing so. All of the radical Democrats in the presidential debates have declared their unlimited support for extreme late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb right up until the very moment of birth. That is why in my State of the Union, I asked Congress to prohibit late-term abortion of babies because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. The Democrat party is the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, socialism, blatant corruption, and the total destruction of your Second Amendment. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, the Second Amendment and the late great Abraham Lincoln, right? Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background, every community, and every walk of life. We are the party of boundless optimism, excitement, energy, and enthusiasm. We have tremendous energy. Tremendous energy.
 Everybody says to me, “Where do you get the energy?” Because I love what we’re doing. I see the results, and they’re happening faster than you even think. You see the numbers. They’re happening faster than you would even think. We are asking all Americans to join our incredible movement. We are the big tent. We are the big party. We are the party with big ideas for the future. Republicans are fighting for school choice because no parent should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school. Right? Right? To keep our community safer and give former prisoners a second chance at life. There’s been nothing like this. I passed criminal justice reform, not the Democrats. I did it with the Republicans, and this could not have been done by anybody but me and the Republican party. The Democrats did not do it. They could never have done it.
 To uphold the rule of law, we have confirmed 218 federal judges who will interpret the Constitution as written. This is a record. And as you know, I have nominated, and we have confirmed, two great new Supreme Court Justices: Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. We have invested $2.2 trillion to rebuild the United States military, including nearly $200 million for Marine Corps Air Station Yuma. Right? I recognized Israel as the true capital and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. We recognize Israel sovereignty over the Golan Heights. They’ve been trying to get it for 52 years. And for years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America. You saw that. They apologized. Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and we are standing up for the people of Arizona.
 At stake in our present battle is the survival of our nation. It is. This election is so important. It’s the survival of our nation. If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November of 2020. You’re the forgotten people no more. Right? No deplorables, right? No deplorables. Who knew that was going to turn out to be such a disaster? But you know, she used the worst word. What was the word she used? Irredeemables, right? I thought that was the problem. No, it was deplorable. So what the hell do I know about politics? She said, “You’re irredeemable and deplorable.” I said, “Oh, that irredeemable’s terrible.” The next day people are showing up. Women, “I’m a deplorable.” Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp, which is vicious, horrible, ugly, and evil. Much worse than I thought. But we’re getting there and not pleasant. A bunch of really bad people, very dishonest people. With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity. Together, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration. We will continue to enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words and phrase. I love the phrase, Made in the USA. Made in the USA.
 We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America within now nine years. We started a year ago. Can you imagine that? We’re doing that, and it’s going to happen. Who would have thought we could have done that? We will land the first woman on the moon and become the first nation in the world to plant our flag on Mars. We will defend privacy, free speech, and you know this. You know it’s under siege, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. We will defend it. It’s under siege. It’s under siege. You see it in Virginia. They want to take away the guns. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one beautiful America. We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.
 we stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. And we live by the words of our national motto In God We Trust. From Tucson to Tombstone, right? Do you agree? You agree, right? Look at him. He’s agreeing, this guy.
 He’s agreeing. No more censorship is right. No more evil. No more crimes. You’re right. From Yuma to Mesa and from Flagstaff to right here in Phoenix, we stand on the shoulders of red-blooded American Patriots who poured their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and to defend our freedom. Arizona was founded by pioneers and prospectors, great prospectors, cowboys and miners and ranchers who tamed the wilderness, braved the blazing sun, and it is hot here. I’ve been here during the summer. I want to tell you, it’s seriously hot. Of course, didn’t they say that President Clinton, when he went on the back of the plane was here to play golf, it was 121 degrees that day? I don’t know about that. I don’t know about that. What do you think he was doing with the Attorney General? I remember he said, “Oh, I just happened to see she was … I was here to play golf. It was 120 degrees out.” I don’t know.
 A lot of crooked stuff went on. I wonder what they talked about. I’m sure it wasn’t that she would become a Supreme Court Justice. I’m sure it wasn’t that they were going to extend her tenure as Attorney General. She was a real beauty. I’m sure it wasn’t. I’m sure it was nothing. They spent 45 minutes on the plane talking about golf and their grandchildren. Right? Can’t let it happen, folks. Can’t let it happen. We can’t let it happen. You fought the battles and helped make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth, and we are making it greater every single day than ever before. Great, great, great citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people, with your help, your devotion and with your drive. We are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. Do you like winning? Because not very long ago you weren’t winning, and I don’t want you … I told this a few times during the campaign. Haven’t used it in a long time, but I don’t want you going to your great governor. He’s a great governor, Doug Ducey. I don’t want you going to your governor saying, “Governor, governor, we just can’t stand winning so much. Please go see the president in the oval office. Governor, the people of Arizona don’t want to keep on winning. It’s too much governor. It’s not even fair to the rest of the planet. Please tell him, Governor Ducey, please tell him, ‘President, the people of Arizona have won too much. We don’t want to keep on winning.'” And I’ll look at Doug Ducey, and I’ll say, “Doug, I’ve a lot of respect for you, Doug. You won by 16 points. That means a lot. But Doug, I don’t care what you say. We’re going to keep on winning, and we’re going to win like never before. And the people of Arizona are going to love it.”
 And he’s going to say, “Thank you, Mr. President. I’m going back home.” The fact is, we are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of Arizona, the best is yet to come. That’s right. Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you very much. Thank you, Arizona. Thank you. (singing)
 Thank you. Thank you. Hello Milwaukee. Hello.
 Well thank you very much. And I’m thrilled to be back in Wisconsin where we had a very big night a few years ago. You remember that very big night? Remember that? They said, “Donald Trump has won the state of Wisconsin.” And since then we’ve produced everything we said and more and more.
 Before it was talk. I said, “I’m going to do this. We’re going to take care of your trade.” What we’ve done with China now, on Wednesday we signed, that’s tomorrow. What we’ve done with the US MCA, what we’ve done with Japan, $40 billion trade deal that a lot of it has to do with the farmers. South Korea. Oh, you got to love Trump, you got to love Trump.
 And you’re great Green Bay Packers are playing San Francisco this weekend. Good luck. So do we have any Green Bay packer fans here tonight? That’s right. And you have a great quarterback who’s a good guy, a good guy. As we begin the year, our economy is booming, wages are rising, poverty is plummeting. Crime is falling and America is the envy of the entire world.
 And then our opponents say, “We’re not going to win. Let’s impeach President Trump. Let’s impeach him.” We’ve got the greatest economy in our history. Our military has been totally rebuilt. “Let’s impeach him.” But we’ve created 7 million jobs since the election, including more than 1 million manufacturing and construction jobs. Nobody thought that was possible.
 And we will soon be replacing the NAFTA catastrophe, one of the worst trade deals in the history of the world, frankly with the incredible US MCA, Canada, Mexico, a giant victory for Wisconsin workers, farmers and dairy producers, a tremendous victory. And we may get that all taken care of this week or next week. It just needs one more vote and we’ll get that out of the Republican Senate. The Republican Senate will be great. Tomorrow we’ll also be signing our phase one trade deal with China, massively boosting exports of products made and produced right here in the great state of Wisconsin. So after years of devastating defense cuts, we have fully rebuilt the United States Military to a point that it has never been before and it’s now more advanced, more lethal, and more powerful than ever. And last year, our great American warriors, because that’s what they are. And they love it. I got to tell you, they love it, right? They love doing that. They wouldn’t trade places with me under any circumstances. They wouldn’t trade places with all of our great Wisconsin politicians. They want to be a military warrior and we don’t want them for that. We want them doing what they’re doing. But our great warriors carried out a daring nighttime raid and terminated the founder and leader of ISIS. The animal known as al-Baghdadi is dead and the wicked caliphate is 100% destroyed.
 And I will tell you when we took over a little less than three years ago, ISIS was all over the place. Now the caliphate is 100% destroyed. Do you remember when I wanted to leave when it was at 98%? I said, let some of the other countries finish it off. We’re going home, right? They all said, “Oh, no sir, please finish it.” So we finished it off to 100%.
 A few days ago. We took bold and decisive action to defend American lives and deliver American justice. At my direction, the United States military launched a flawless precision strike that killed the world’s number one terrorist, number one terrorist. Do you know who that is? Qasem Soleimani, number one terrorist in the world.
 Soleimani was responsible for murdering and wounding thousands of Americans and was actively planning new attacks, but we stopped them cold. And frankly, they already started the attack, as you saw in Baghdad, on our very large embassy in Baghdad. That was already started. And I said to our generals, “Get there now. We don’t want to have another Benghazi. Not on my watch, or on any watch.”
 They said, “Sir, we’ll be there tomorrow.” I said, “Nope, you got to be there right now. Get them over there now.” There are thousands of soldiers. They were soldiers. You take a look at that crowd. That was not protesters. They were soldiers, and they were surrounding our embassy in Baghdad. And all of a sudden they see these beautiful, very expensive, I will tell you, brand new Apache helicopters roaming over the top. And then they see our great military. You saw them in the plane, right? Some of them were getting out of their pajamas. They were. I said, “Don’t worry about it.” I said, “We won’t put that on.” But they were sitting there and they were calling a roll call in the plane. Right? And it was a beautiful sight. And these guys were better than Tom Cruise at his best.
 All right. So tomorrow with the fake news, here’s your headline. We have thousands of people outside wanting to get into and they can’t, because you people got here first. But so here’s your headline tomorrow: Protestors Disturb the Rally. One protester, a very weak voice. If you people wouldn’t go crazy every time you see something, he’d go right through and nobody would even know she was there. Now she’s going home to mom where she will be in big trouble.
 Because I guarantee you that mom voted for Trump. And in 10 years from now, when I run yet again, she’ll be voting for Trump too. I’m only kidding. I’m only kidding. We drive them crazy. We drive them crazy. They say, “You know he’s not leaving, don’t you? He’s never leaving.” They say, “He’s going to win. He’s never going to leave.” These people, it’s called Trump Derangement Syndrome. It really is. You know what they don’t know is that if for any reason, after five years we do leave, which we will, because I believe in that stuff. Right? But you know what’s going to happen to their industry. They’re all going to die and fold up. Going to be very boring out there, very boring. That’s why I say at some point, every single one of them will be endorsing Donald Trump.
 But crazy Bernie Sanders and the Washington Democrats, by the way, Bernie is surging. Bernie is surging. Bernie. But the Democrats are outraged that we kill this terrorist monster even though this monster was behind hundreds and hundreds of death.
 That’s two. Hey, speaking of protesters, have you seen what’s happened in Iran? The protesters are on our side. First time ever. They’re on our side. In fact, they put this big American flag on the street. And the Iranians, thousands and thousands of Iranians were supposed to walk on it and trample it and step and beat the hell out of it. Every one of them went around that flag. They like Trump. They like you. I’m just your representative, but they like us. They like us. They haven’t seen anything like that in a long time. They went around, did you see it? They went around the flag. They didn’t want to touch it. They love America. They love our country. That’s called progress. That’s called progress.
 But the Democrats are doing everything possible to disparage what we did with the hit on this monster. Many of the young men and women you see walking around without arms, without legs and without … were done by Soleimani. That’s what he loved. He loved the roadside bomb. That’s what he loved. Thousands and thousands and thousands in Iraq, in Afghanistan, roadside bombs. He was the king of the roadside bombs. Great percentages of people don’t have legs right now and arms because of this son of a bitch.
 Now the Democrats should be outraged by Soleimani’s evil crimes, not that decision to end his wretched life. They’re saying, “Well, he was a general. He was this. He was that.” You know what? Number one, he wasn’t supposed to be there. He was a designated terrorist by president Obama who didn’t do anything about it as usual. As usual, they don’t do anything. They designate and they don’t do anything about. He should’ve been killed 20 years ago.
 Now, here’s the story with the Democrats. If I didn’t kill him, and let’s say we lost three, four, five embassies or bases or thousands of people or hundreds of people or two people were killed, they would have said, “Trump should have taken him out.” Anything we do, they go the opposite. So we kill him. And that was precision. Some people thought it went much too fast. Went too fast. So we kill him and they say, “What a horrible …” If we didn’t kill him, they’d say, “What a horrible thing.” Right?
 You know with the wall, we’re building the wall. You know that right? [inaudible 00:27:36] And by the way, they think they caught me. They never catch us. Because Mexico’s paying for the wall. You know that. You’ll see that. It’s all worked out. Mexico’s paying. It’s driving them crazy. Now they say, “Okay, he’s building the wall. But Mexico didn’t pay.” Mexico will pay. And here’s the thing. You’ll see that it’ll come out. We’ll do it sometime during the debate or maybe before. Our debate, the real debate that people are going to watch, because nobody’s watching.
 haven’t been doing great on the debates. I have to tell you. But we are building this wall. We’re over 100 miles right now. We’re going to be expanding the length. You have a lot of natural where you have 1,978 miles. You need 500 miles, but 700 would be good, 750 or so would be great. We’re going to now get it up. We have all the financing. You think it’s easy getting financing when people put … I can get anything from them. I can get whatever I want in terms of money except for a wall. And I made one big mistake. I should have said to them, “We will not build the wall. We don’t want the wall.” They would have insisted that we build it. We would have had all the money we wanted. I made a mistake. I made a big mistake. Now we’re building the wall. It’s going up and it’s going up rapidly and very soon we’ll be building about a mile a day. And we should be up to over 400 miles by next year, the end of next year, and shortly thereafter it’ll be finished. And it’s already having a tremendous impact on people not being able to come into our country.
 Bernie and the radical left cannot protect your family and they cannot protect our country, nor do they want to, I think. According to Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren, who has somewhat less Indian blood in her than I do, and I have none. Remember? Oh, we hit her hard. But I hit her too early, but now it doesn’t matter. She’s not going anywhere. But Bernie said, according to her, Bernie said, and I don’t believe that he said this, because I don’t know him. I don’t particularly like him. He’s a nasty guy. But I don’t believe he said it. It’s not his field. You have to know what people say. She said, right, that Bernie stated strongly that a woman can’t win for president. A woman can win for president. Fortunately that could happen. Who knows?
 But she said that Bernie said, “A woman can’t win.” I don’t believe that Bernie said that. I really don’t know. Just it’s not the kind of a thing he’d say. If you want to keep America safe, just vote Republican. We’re doing so well. We’re doing so well. Now this was … leave him alone. That’s all right. Let security just take care of her.
 Okay, you all right? Get him out here. Good. Good job security. Good job. Do we love law enforcement?
 And is there ever, ever a better place to be than a Trump rally on some night during some week? The truth, is we have a great time. But you know what? More importantly we get things done. We’re getting everything done. But even president Obama’s own former National Security Advisor, a highly respected general named Jim Jones, praised our action to take out Soleimani and said it was absolutely correct and it was the absolute right thing to do. I’m sure they like him very much. He sounds like our kind of a guy. So Jim, if they’ve given you a hard time, come on over to the Republican party. No, he’s a respected guy. He said we did the right thing.
 Everyone knows. They’re saying, “Was the attack eminent? Was it eminent?” Does the fact that he’s killed hundreds of thousands of people and thousands of Americans and horribly killed and wounded thousands and thousands? That doesn’t matter. Was the attack eminent? I think they’re going to start a new investigation. Was the attack or this horror … and by the way, he was in a country he wasn’t allowed to be in. We don’t mention that because he was designated and he wasn’t allowed to be there. And he was there with the head of Hezbollah, and they were talking about, like Hillary Clinton. They were talking about weddings and working out. Soleimani and the head of Hezbollah, they were talking about weddings, working out.
 Or Bill Clinton in the back of the airplane with the Attorney General, where they may have made her an offer that you’re going to go to the Supreme Court. Or they may have said, “You’re going to to stay Attorney General, but help. Help.” They may have said that. Do you think they would have said that? No. Nothing like that. But do you remember? They talked about golf and grandchildren, right? 45 minutes. I like golf.
 45 minutes. I like golf and I love my grandchildren. I don’t think I can talk to somebody about them for 45 minutes that I don’t even know. 45. I have a beautiful grandchild. He’s really beautiful. He’s so great. Okay. What else am I going to say, right? Then I took a… Let’s talk one or two. How’s Tiger doing? How’s this one? How’s that one? That’s another five minutes, right? What am I going to do with the other 35 minutes? Maybe I’m going to talk about Supreme court appointments, et cetera.
 Well, we’re doing very well. But at this very moment, the good people of Iran are taking to the streets in numbers like nobody’s seen before, and they’re really protesting the repressive regime and demanding a better future. They’re great people. The great people of Iran, the great people, they get it. And they’re tired of watching their leaders plunder around to stoke violence and death and war. And you know, Iran’s caused us problems for 40 years. Just so you understand, Reagan had it. Iran Contra. Carter had it. 52 hostages. How about that? Destroyed his presidency. It was pretty well destroyed before that in all fairness. But it didn’t help. Actually probably got Reagan elected, if you think about it, right? But no, carter had it, 52 hostages. Reagan had Iran Contra. Obama had just… He was begging them for everything, but Obama gave them $150 billion, $1.8 billion in cash [inaudible 00:01:46].
 Got zero. He got zero out of it. He got zero. I’d love to have that money back. It’s a lot of money. But I’ve warned the Ayatollah and the government of Iran that they must not harm, hurt, or kill any protesters. The whole world is watching. It’s watching.
 They’ve killed thousands of protests. We support the Iranian people and their courageous struggle for freedom. It’s incredible what’s going on over there. It really is. But we’re watching it. We’re watching very closely. And we were ready. That night when the attack was made on us, attack was made on us. Remember this, they killed an American, they killed other people just before that. And so we did what we did, right? And they said, it’s our turn now. I said, you better be careful when you say it’s our turn. Because we had designated targets that you wouldn’t know… It would have taken him 30 years to rebuild if that was even possible. It’s true, it’s true. And we saw those missiles launched, and they were big and they were fast, and they were accurate. Four of them went bad. They fell way short. But 12 of them hit. And I said, man, they are quick. They knew immediately what they were, and they saw those missiles hit. I said, how bad is it? It hit a base. And an hour later or so, we get a call back. I said, how many killed? Nobody, sir.
 I said, how many hurt? They said, nobody, sir. And I said, they just saved themselves a trillion dollars and a lot of lives. That’s true. A trillion, not a billion. A trillion. So they did a very smart thing and we’re not looking for regime change. They’ve tried that with Libya. They go, Hillary Clinton, let’s get rid of Libya. Let’s get rid of Gaddafi. Let’s get rid of Gaddafi. How’s that working out? Right? Let’s get rid of Gaddafi. That was a Hillary deal. Then you had Benghazi. And see Benghazi, they didn’t respond. They didn’t respond. Should be. Should be.
 And then we [inaudible 00:38:59] to Iraq. Iraq didn’t knock down the World Trade Center just in case anybody had any question. And this guy did kill. He was not a sweetheart. He was a bad guy in every way. But he did kill terrorists, right? And it became Harvard University for terrorists, right? But they did go after him, but he didn’t knock down.
 We’re getting the hell out. We’re moving… We did something in Syria. We were guarding their border. At one point, we had thousands of people. The Syrian border between Turkey and Syria, it’s been there for a thousand years. They’ve been fighting for [inaudible 00:39:45].
 Our soldiers out of there. I did. [inaudible 00:39:49] out. You know what I did with the soldiers? They don’t tell you the truth, sorry, because there are a bunch of corrupt people back there. I told Turkey, you got to defend your own border. We’re not going to defend your border. And we get along with Turkey. We get along, but they’ve been there for… And by the way, I call it a safe zone. That is the most dangerous safe zone in the world. Okay? I’m looking at the audience, there’s about three of you that want to be in that zone, okay? And you’re very tough people. But this is the most dangerous… I call it, I call it the safe zone. Some day it may be a safe zone, but I took our soldiers out, because we had an army here and we had a vast number of people here, and they were going to fight. I said, if they’re going to fight like they have been for hundreds and hundreds of years, for centuries, let them fight. But we’re getting the hell out of there, okay? But the fake news doesn’t tell you the right story. But the fake news doesn’t tell you the right story.
 Because what I did is I took our soldiers, and you know what I did? I moved them to the oil area, and we now control the oil. So they said Trump stayed in Syria. Trump said, so people said to me, why you staying in Syria?
 Okay? A long time ago. You have no idea the things and the decisions I’ve seen. So they say Trump’s in Syria, I didn’t pull out. I did pull out. We have the oil really secure. We’ll see what happens with it, but we can help our friends, the Kurds, because that’s where they got their wealth. And then ultimately it was with ISIS. But right now it’s with the United States military.
 And we also got rid of remnants of ISIS. While we’re creating jobs and killing terrorists, democrats in Congress are wasting America’s time with demented hoaxes and crazy witch hunts that had been going on by the way, from the day I came down the escalator with our future first lady.
 Somebody said to me recently, President, President, it was a friend of mine, used to always call me Donald. Hey Donald, how are you doing? Let’s go have dinner. Okay, okay, good. Now he calls me President. I told you this before. Calls me pres… They always call me President. President, President, tell me what’s happening, what’s going on, how’s it all going? You’re doing such a great job. I said, do me a favor. Call me Donald. I can’t. Now when they say, you know what that means, right? That means respect for the office of president.
 And you know what? We’re going to keep that way. We’re going to keep it that way. We’re going to keep it there. But that’s why this November we’re going back and we’re going to win the House. The Republicans are going to win the House.
 Because I don’t know if you know it. The impeachment hoax, it’s a total hoax. This is based… Just think of this. This is based on a perfect phone call. Did anybody read the transcript? It’s a perfect call. In fact, if you go back and look at Lyndon Johnson, all of them. Lyndon Johnson was sort of a tough guy. Can you imagine his phone calls? He’s probably looking down or looking up, and he’s probably saying, these people have gone crazy. That’s the nicest call I’ve ever tracked. Somebody said, I never knew you could be so nice on a telephone call. But this is all based on a simple phone call that was totally appropriate where the president of Ukraine said there was no pressure on us. Didn’t even know what they were talking about. The foreign minister said they want to impeach. Impeach the president of the United States over a perfect phone call. It’s the greatest hoax ever perpetrated on our country. Ever.
 But we’re going to go back and because of it, it was [inaudible 00:44:31] I don’t know if you’ve seen. Independent voters and voters I think of all of the voters, including Democrats moving over, we just got a 195 to nothing, the Republicans in the house, which was a fix. Nancy Pelosi says it must be nonpartisan. And she said, it has to be clear cut. Well, number one, never happened. No problem. Number two, look at the vote. Three Democrats voted with us. So I guess you could say it was a nonpartisan vote because they voted with us, okay? But we’re going back and we’re going to hold the Senate. And we’re going to keep the White House, but we’re going to win back the House. We’re going to win back the House. And I’m thrilled tonight. A man who has become a great friend of mine, he’s a warrior. Senator Ron Johnson is here. Come up here. What a good guy.
 Congressman Bryan Steil. Jim Sensenbrenner. Glenn Grothman. Glenn, come up. Come up. Mike Gallagher. Wisconsin house speaker Robin Voss. Wisconsin state Senate president Roger Roth. State Senate president. Come on fellas. Wisconsin state Senate majority leader Scott Fitzgerald. A friend of mine, a world champion. Would you believe it? Is Sean here? Where’s Sean? Where’s Sean? Get up here. I love champions. He would climb that sucker. He was the best in the world right here from Wisconsin, right? Congressman Sean Duffy. We miss him.
 But he signed with CNN. They paid him a lot of money, and they don’t put them on. Why? Because I’m pro-Trump. You think that’s fair, right? He’s pro-Trump. So what they’ve done is paid him money to silence him because he has a very important voice. Great job. Yeah, I like that kind of a job. I think he’s okay with it. He gets his check, they refuse to put him on. He says good things about Trump. We don’t want you on. That’s CNN. That’s how fake right there. Turn the camera on.
 And a good friend of all of ours, a Kenosha native, Reince Priebus. Reince, come up. Thank you, man. Thank you Reince. This is a great group of Republican people, but more importantly, it’s a great group of winners. They have been so great, so they worked so hard and I just want to thank you all for being here tonight. Thank you.
 Well thank you for your strong show support for President Trump. We ran a pretty tough campaign together here in Wisconsin 2016, and when it was all said and done, I was tired. I had to take some days off. You know who didn’t take any days off? President Trump. I have never seen a man work harder, being so dedicated, so in love with America. That is why we all need to make sure that he wins a second term.
 Four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years. I have also… I’m 64 years old. I’ve never in my lifetime seen a man get elected president of the United States where there wasn’t some measure of well wishes, some honeymoon period where America gathered around that individual and said, Mr. President, we all said, it’s a big job. We wish you well. Keep us safe. Make this country prosperous. That hasn’t happened. That’s because the Democrats simply won’t admit he beat them. He has been tormented since the day after the election, but he has held strong. It hasn’t bothered him. He’s just pressed forward. He’s made this country great. Our economy’s in great shape. He deserves to get reelected. Like all of you, like all of you, he loves his country, he will do everything to defend it. We love President Trump. God bless you, president Trump.
 Thank you Ron. A great guy. Thanks to strong Republican leadership like Ron, like all of them that you just saw, America is winning again. America is respected again. And America is thriving again like never before. We’re doing great. We’re the envy of the world. And under my administration, we now have the lowest average unemployment rate of any administration in the history of our country.
 And in your great state, Wisconsin… You ever noticed with Biden, he’s always calling the wrong state? And in your great state of Iowa, Iowa. It’s Iowa, right? No, it’s Wisconsin. Oh, I meant Wisconsin. Oh, I didn’t know I was in Wisconsin. That’s fine. How many times has he done that, by the way? Lots of times, he said.
 It’s great to be in the state of Ohio. No sir, you’re in Florida. Many times. The sad part about that… Sleepy Joe is right. You know the sad part about that? When you do that, you can’t really recover. You can be Winston Churchill, make the finest remainder of remarks, but you get killed. And he does it every time. And the fake news, they give him a total pass and that’s okay. It’s all right.
 It’s going to happen to all of us someday. Does anybody get that? Yeah. In Wisconsin, the unemployment rate has reached its lowest level in history. How’s that for a sound bite? How do you beat that sound bite, right? So now the people of Wisconsin are going to say, well let’s see the state set a record, most successful it’s ever been. And by the way, that’s because we got a lot of help from a guy named Scott Walker. Your governor. Ron Johnson, all those guys. Because this didn’t happen so quickly.
 But think. So how do you beat that? You have the most successful, lowest unemployment rate you’ve ever had. And then they say, somebody’s going to come and say, well we’ll do a better job. Really, you’re going to do a better job? The lowest in history by far, your number one economic numbers by far. Oh, let’s put somebody else in as president. I don’t think so. Right?
 But here’s one that I loved the most. African American, Hispanic American, Asian American unemployment rates have reached the lowest levels ever recorded in the history of our country. And here’s another one. African American youth, the way it was was so high was so horrible. Youth unemployment has reached an all time low in recorded history. African-American poverty has reached the lowest rate ever recorded also.
 By the way, just out of curiosity, how are you 401k’s doing? [inaudible 00:55:02]? The only question are you at 70, 80, 90, 97%? He goes higher. What are you at? What’s yours? 100%. Not bad. I know who he’s voting for. But think of this, because this is what it’s about. Is that these companies, these big public companies, they’re owned by the people, they’re owned by everybody. Rich people, and they’re owned by everybody. We have set 141 records on the stock market, highest levels ever in recorded history. 141 records.
 That means, in less than three years, for 141 days, we set a record. Think of it, we’ve said 141 records. Who the hell can do that? And if our opponents had won the election, instead of going up, we’re very close to 30,000 on the Dow. Nobody thought that was possible. And clearly the fakers back there, nobody thought that was possible. Instead of being up, you would have… I believe, I really believe, because regulation, so important, tax cuts, so important to get it all going. I believe instead of being up massively, whatever the number is, but depending on who you are, changes, but it’s all way over 60, 70, 80, you guys know. You would have been down 50, 60, 70. You would have been down at a level, you would probably be extremely depressed, right now. You wouldn’t have bought all those brand new keep America great hats.
 Don’t worry, we’re never getting rid of MAGA, don’t worry. We don’t have the courage to get rid of MAGA. The greatest campaign in history. We’re never leaving. But you wouldn’t have bought those hats. You know why? You wouldn’t have the money to buy him. Okay? Now you can buy them, it doesn’t mean a damn thing. So let’s do it real fast. The poll, right? Make America great again, or keep America great, right? I don’t have to go through the whole deal. We’re going to do it quick. We’re going to do it quickly. Ready? Who likes make America great again?
 Whoa. They’re very loyal people in Wisconsin. Who likes keep America great?
 All right. So it surprises me every single time. But make America great again, MAGA, has never won one of these polls. You know why? We’ve rebuilt our military, we’ve cut taxes, we’ve cut regulation, our stock market hit records. It’s called keep America great. I mean, we’ve done so much. And I just got a free… See these Democrats, they go out and spend $1 million on a poll. What I do is I take my own poll. And they’ll interview 203 people. 203 people say they’ll get it wrong. Because I’m always surprised. Make America great again I think is the greatest phrase ever used in politics, right?
 So to switch it may be crazy, so we’re going to use them both. Okay? We’ll use them both. [inaudible 00:24:51]. But under the Trump economy, the lowest paid earners are reaping the biggest, fastest, and largest games. You know that right? This is a blue collar boom. They don’t like telling you that. Under my administration, the growth in net worth for the bottom half of wage earners has increased 15 times more than under the three previous administrations. That’s pretty amazing.
 Because they keep saying, oh, the rich are getting richer. Well, the poor are doing the best they’ve ever done. Earnings for the bottom 10% are rising faster than earnings for the top 10% proportionately. Under eight years of the Barack Hussein Obama administration. Which administration loves spying on people’s campaigns?
 By the way, by the way, could you imagine if it were the other way around and I spied on his campaign? What would these fake news people be doing? More than 300,000 people under Obama, 300,000 people left the workforce. Under just three years of by administration, 3.5 million people have joined the workforce and nobody believed that was possible. 370 companies have signed our pledge to America’s workers providing more than 14 million Americans with new training and job opportunities. We’re training them. We’re getting them, Walmart, so many great companies, they’re training people, because they can train a much better than government. 14 million, you know who has worked so hard on that? Everybody, you’ve heard of Ivanka, right? Ivanka. She had such a passion for it. She’s very smart. I said, would you like this? You have no debt. I want to get people working. I want to get them and help families. So I said, all right, good. Look, she’s smart. Go do whatever the hell you want to do, it’s okay, darling. So she had a goal of a half a million people. She was going to get trained, get into companies. So she’d call Walmart, she’d call Exxon, she’d call all these great companies. And all of a sudden she hit 8 million. Then she hit 9 million. Don’t forget, she wanted to do 500,000, but this is her. Then she had 10 million. She just hit 14 million people have been trained by these great companies.
 14 million. Ivanka. 14 million, would you believe that’s possible? But that’s why we have the best unemployment rates, we have the best employment rates. By the way, very close to 160 million people are now working in the United States. Nobody’s ever even come close to that number. We’ve lifted 10 million people off federal welfare programs. Real median income is now at the highest level ever recorded in the history of our country. Think of that. Real median income.
 Under eight years, so we’re here three years right, but really less because when it was done, the stats, it was two and a half. But we have less than three. Under eight years of the Bush administration, household incomes grew $400. Eight years, $400. Under eight years of president Obama, household incomes grew $975,000. That’s okay, 975. Eight years, right? Under three years of the Trump administration, household incomes have risen $10,000. Ten thousand.
 That’s why we’re doing well. The consumer. $3,100 of which for regulatory cuts, $2,000 for the tax cuts, it’s actually higher than that, $2,500 for energy savings, and $5,000 in real wage gains. $10,000. The child tax credit alone, which every Democrat in Congress opposed, is delivering $2,200 a year to the average American family. Who’s in favor of that cut. Who’s in favor of having that? You? People don’t know. They think the Democrats gave it. The Democrats give nothing. They’re too busy. They’re too busy doing other things. They don’t do anything. They’re too busy doing other things. We ended the war on American energy. The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on earth.
 Number one in the world by far. Saudi Arabia, Russia, but we’re number one by far. And if I get a couple of additional pipelines approved, which I will very quickly, instead of waiting 20 years to get them approved, it’ll increase this by another 22% that will get them done quickly. And they’ll be environmentally friendly and all of that. I believe in that.
 We have eliminated a record number of job-destroying regulations. I brought back the old light bulb. Better light for much less money, if you want it, right? Little things.
 Somebody said, oh sir, don’t mention the light bulb. It’s hard to make an elegant speech. I’m saying I brought back the light bulb. So the new light bulb costs you five times as much, and it makes you look orange. And I was more interested in the orange than I was in the cost. But you know what, if you want, you have it. And the new bulb, I don’t know if you see it, it’s on there. It’s a hazardous waste. When that bulb ends, you’re supposed to take it to a certain dump and gingerly put it in because it’s loaded up with gasses. That’s the new… I said to somebody today in Environmental Protection, how many people do that in the country? Sir, maybe none. They throw it into the garbage can.
 But I’m also approving new dishwashers that give you more water so you can actually wash and rinse your dishes without having to do it ten times or five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Anybody have a new dishwasher? I’m sorry for that. I’m sorry for that. It’s worthless. They give you so little water. Do you ever see it? Air comes out? So little water. So what happens? You end up using it ten times, and the plates, then you take them out and doing the old fashioned way, right? But what do you do? You’re spending ten times for the electricity, right? So I’m putting the water back. Most places have so much water, they don’t know what the hell to do with it. A lot of people don’t realize that. So dishwashers now, you’re going to have just as much as you’ve ever had, and you’re going to use now one shot. Your dishes are going to be beautiful. I’m sorry that you just bought one of those brand new pieces of garbage, but darling, you can [inaudible 01:07:16].
 And it’s… Wait. And it was just announced from South Korea, makes a lot of our products, unfortunately, I put a tariff on washing machines and refrigerators, right? They just announced that they’re building major refrigerator and washing machine plants in the United States. You know why? You know why? Because they don’t want to pay the 25% tariff. So they’re building them here. That way they don’t have to pay the tariff.
 And just one final thing. I know this doesn’t matter, but I said leave it. It’s so inelegant to-
 I know this doesn’t matter, but I said leave it. It’s so inelegant to talk about it, right? Right? Isn’t it inelegant? I’m talking about dishwashers. Wait till you hear the next one. I’m talking about refrigerators. Probably wanting to say to the union, I’ll leave it out because I want to get praise for making a … You cannot make a brilliant speech where they say, “That was such an incredible, elegant speech,” if I’m talking about dishwashers, sinks, toilets, light bulbs. But sinks, toilets and showers, you don’t get any water. They put restrictors on and now they made them permanent. People used to take them out. They put restrictors on. Try going and buying a new faucet. You turn it on, no water comes out, right?
 We won’t talk about toilets, but you know that’s … 10, 15, but we don’t talk about that. Because I’ve said this three or four times, the only subject they ever talk about is toilets, so I don’t mention … but how about the shower? You go into a shower, and I have this beautiful head of hair, I need a lot of water. I need water. You go into the shower, right? You turn on the water, drip, drip, drip. I called the guy, “Something wrong with this?” “No, sir. It’s just the restrictor.” So you’re in there five times longer than you’re supposed to be. You use probably more water and it’s a very unpleasant experience, right? So we’re getting rid of the restrictors. You’re going to have full shower flow. Full sink.
 Did you ever go to the faucet? You turn on the faucet to wash your hands and it turns on so easy. It’s like this, because there’s zero pressure behind it. No water. You go like that, the thing flips on. Whoa. And then, dung, dung. These people are crazy. And then in California, this governor, who has no clue by the way, he has no clue. Governor Gavin Newsom. He sends all the water out to the Pacific and then he just comes up … I don’t know if you saw this. They come up with rules and regulations. Starting soon, if you’re a person lives in California, you only get 50 gallons of water. Now, it sounds like a lot of water, but it’s not.
 If you take a shower, wash your hands a couple of times a day … It’s not. Then it goes down to 47, 46, 45. Can you imagine? You pay the highest taxes outside of New York, where they’re not doing a good job in New York. They’re not doing good. Everyone’s leaving New York for other environs like Florida. It’s not good. Because the taxes are too high. Governor Cuomo’s got to get those taxes down, got to get them down, and other things have to happen. But here’s Gavin Newsom. So, Gavin Newsom, you have the water pouring down from up north, millions and millions of gallons. You know what they do with it? They divert it into the Pacific Ocean, because they have … We must be in Wisconsin. No. Millions of gallons coming down from the north.
 They have this massive valve. You’re talking about a valve, this is a serious valve, and they turn it and it … Because they have a tiny, tiny little fish that’s doing very poorly with or without the water. So in the meantime, if you own a home on Beverly Hills, they scream at you if you want to water your grass a little bit, right? But you have no water coming in. They divert millions and millions of gallons. And what we’ve just done for the people of California is we’ve made it possible on a federal basis that they don’t have to divert all that water anymore. Now that’s only good for California, but these are the things we do.
 And now the last one is we’re working on cars. We’re making them less expensive and safer. We’re giving them a tiny little bit more fuel and you’re going to save on average $3,500. You’re going to have a heavier car, a little bit, meaning you’ll have steel instead of paper mache walls. And we’re getting a lot of good response. And environmentally, it’s better, because now people … the number is 12. From 12 years ago, with the old gas guzzlers, they’ll all be trading in their cars to get the new cars, which they don’t do right now. So it’s really going to be something, and we’re in a little fight with California over that. But I think ultimately we win that one. You’ll buy a better car, a safer car, for less money. Not a bad combination. Not a bad thing.
 To lift up forgotten communities that need investment the most, we’ve created opportunity zones. Jobs and investment are now pouring into 120 newly designated opportunity zones right here in Wisconsin. And Ron Johnson helped and Tim Scott of South Carolina helped, right? They’re doing great. They are doing good. And for decades politicians ran for office promising to defend Wisconsin workers, but then they went to Washington and lined their pockets with special interest cash as they shipped your jobs and your dreams to countries thousands of miles away. Countries that you’ve never even heard of.
 Globalist politicians lowered our economic defenses and allowed other nations to rob your factories, steal your farms. By the way, no estate tax on those beautiful farms. We got rid of that. So now, if you love your children and you have a farm or a small business or small ranch, or even a large ranch, you have no estate tax. You can give it to the kids. If you don’t love your children … Anybody in here does not love their children? There are some. Come on, raise your hand. There are some. You know, they’re brats. They’re little brats. They’re horrible human beings. So if you’re one of them, this doesn’t help you, because you’ll save some tax. The fact is, no estate tax on these small businesses and farms.
 That’s a tremendous thing, because you are dying, you are leaving the business to your kids. They all said, “Thank you very much, Daddy and Mommy,” and then they went out and mortgaged the hell out of the place and they ended up losing it to the banks. But we got rid of the estate tax on small farms and businesses and really great things. Little stuff like that we’ve done that we never said we were going to do, but these people were ransacking your communities. But we are defenseless no more, because at long last you have a president who puts America first. Been a long time. Been a long time. Been a long time.
 We’re putting America first. No issue of Washington Democrats more thoroughly betrayed the American people than that of immigration. He goes, “Traitor.” Are you having a good time, sir? I think you are. Goes, “Traitor.” I guess in a certain way they are traitors, when you think about it. Left wing politicians, I call them the Do Nothing Democrats, support deadly sanctuary cities, demonstrating their contempt, scorn and disdain for everyday Americans. These jurisdictions release dangerous, violent, criminal aliens out of their jails and directly onto your streets where they are free to rob, attack and murder American citizens. You have it right here. You have it right here.
 Last year, ICE … I love ICE. I think they’re so great. You know, they moved thousands of MS-13 out of our country, thousands, and others too. But ICE officers in this region of our country arrested nearly 7,000 illegal aliens with criminal records. So you have 7,000 illegal aliens having criminal records, including those charged or convicted of murder, burglary, robbery, drug crimes, killings in the most violent way. Right here in Wisconsin, cities run by far left politicians are releasing dangerous criminal aliens who abuse, assault and threaten innocent children. Your children.
 Last year, a place I like, the sanctuary County of Milwaukee, released an illegal alien criminal with multiple charges for sexual assault of child. Think of that, of children. He’s now at large. They’re searching all over and he’s looking for yet another victim. They’re searching all over. Allowed to go from your sanctuary city. In the city of Madison, police arrested an illegal alien for sexual assault. After authorities released him, he committed violent battery, only to be released one more time. They’re looking for him again. Isn’t that nice? The same illegal alien was then arrested for a third time in September and charged with multiple sexual assaults, including sexual assault of a child. Now that criminal is once again in Wisconsin jail and I call on your left wing officials to stop the madness and to work with ICE to ensure he is deported the hell back home. Get him out of our country.
 Democrats stand for crime, corruption and chaos. Republicans stand for law, order and justice. It’s true. It’s true. We believe Wisconsin should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens. We are removing these illegal criminals and gang members by the tens of thousands and we will not let them back. We made a deal with Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Mexico, where they accept them back. Under the Obama administration, they get them, they bring them back. And Honduras and Guatemala, which they get that, we’re not taking them back, but with us, they take them back. They take them back. Very great.
 It helped a lot when we were paying them hundreds of millions of dollars a year. Think of it. I just said, we’re not paying them anymore. All of a sudden they said, “We would love to have our wonderful gang members back. We would love to have our gang members back, sir.” Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we have reduced illegal border crossings, seven straight months in a row, and we’re being helped by our new 100 miles plus of wall. Illegal crossings are down 78% since May and we have ended catch and release. That was a tough one. Our very big and very powerful border wall is going up at a record speed and we’re fully financed now. Isn’t that nice?
 That wasn’t easy. That was not easy. We’re adding new miles every week and we are on track to soon build that wall. You’re going to have a wall like no other. It’s going to be a powerful, terrific wall. And walls do work. I hate to say, remember the Democrats, “You don’t need walls.” Oh really? “We need drones.” They wanted us to put drones flying around, taking pictures of everybody. Now, did you see on part of the new wall two days ago, illegal aliens with drugs on their back were climbing the wall. They got to the top. You know that paddle on top is called a climb resistor. It’s very slippery and very hot, very hot, and they got stuck on the wall. They couldn’t get off the wall. Did you see that?
 I was watching the news. I was surprised that the fake news showed it and I said, “Isn’t that a beautiful sight?” They couldn’t get over the wall. Couldn’t get off. They had to get the fire department to get them down. Do you believe that? 30 feet up, that’s like almost a four story building. Washington Democrats have never been more extreme than they are now. They’re going crazy. They’re going totally loony. Nervous nancy, how about Nervous … How about her district? Her district is so filthy dirty. It’s filthy dirty with all of the things, I won’t say it, but the needles and everything else. These are areas that were, 10 years ago, the best in the country and now they’re disgusting.
 She ought to spend more time back in San Francisco taking care of her community, instead of wasting everybody’s time. But taking their cues from socialist Bernie Sanders, AOC, all these people, liberal lawmakers are pushing a government takeover of healthcare that would strip 180 million Americans of their private health insurance. Many of you have great insurance. Republicans will never let that happen. They’ll probably change their mind before the … See, this is why I don’t like talking about it now. I’d rather wait six, seven, eight months, let them say it 5, 000 times when they have to do it, and then talk.
 They want to take away your private health insurance. We will protect patients with preexisting conditions like nobody else, and we will protect your preexisting physicians, which you’ve had to get rid of. Which you will have to get rid of when this new plan never happens. Don’t worry about it. It’s not going to happen. It’s not going to happen. I wouldn’t worry about it. Sounds nice. It doesn’t even sound good, frankly. There’s one that costs a fortune, doesn’t even sound good. At least let it sound good. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb [inaudible 01:23:51] the moment of [inaudible 01:23:53]. That is why I’ve asked Congress [inaudible 01:23:56] extreme late term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.
 Democrats are now the party of high taxes. Think of it. They want to raise your taxes. How does that work? I guess I’m old-fashioned. I’ve only been doing this for three [inaudible 00:16:28]. I’m not experienced like other. A Senator came up, “Sir, I’ve run seven different [inaudible 01:24:33] won five times.” I said, “I’ve done one, but I’ve won. But it’s the beep.” But no, seriously, we’re all smart people. How is it good when they say, “We’re going to raise your taxes?” Is the world going crazy? They say, “We’re going to raise your taxes. We’re going to open borders. Everybody can come in … for everybody’s health insurance. Schooling. You know, one time … we’re going to get everybody a Rolls Royce, and CNN or one of them said, “They never said, and they never promised a Rolls Royce. Donald Trump lied tonight.” I said, “Every illegal alien will have a Rolls Royce.” They said, “He lied tonight.” These people are sick.
 But they’re the party of late term abortion, socialism and corruption. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American Dream, and of course, honest Abe Lincoln, right? Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background and from every race, religion, color, and creed. We are a movement. There’s a movement like nobody’s ever seen before. You know, when I mention this, anything I say that’s even slightly false, it’s headlines. “Trump said this. These people. He said this.” This is one of the greatest … I would say this. This is the greatest movement in the history of our country. I really believe that. Never been a movement like this.
 I mean, there have been some great movements where somebody came along and out of nowhere won the state of New Hampshire, won Iowa, won South Carolina down the way, won a state some place. But we won 32 states. There’s never been a movement like this, never happened before. But we’re a movement for all Americans who believe in fairness and justice, equality and dignity, opportunity and safety. We are a big tent and we are a big party of big ideas for the future. That’s why African Americans are joining the Republican Party like nobody ever thought even possible. They love us and we love them.
 And to give former prisoners a second chance at life, we passed. It was us, not the Democrats. They came to me, they wanted help, I gave them help. I got it done. I called Republicans that maybe wouldn’t have been so inclined, some of them. Some of them very much inclined. Some of them very conservative were very much inclined. But I got the people that we needed. Obama couldn’t do it. Bush couldn’t do it. Nobody could do it. I got it approved, and from the day it was approved, I got no thanks, I got no credit. And that’s okay, because you know, right? But we passed bi-partisan criminal justice reform and that’s helped so many people.
 I mean, you know the story of Alice Johnson. You know so many different stories. It’s helped so many people, especially in the African-American community, the Hispanic community. It’s helped a lot of people. It’s a different world. To uphold the rule of law, we have confirmed 187 federal judges, a record, who will interpret the constitution as written. 187. Last spring, Wisconsin voters, as you know, elected a great judge to your State Supreme Court, and this spring you have a chance to reelect another terrific judge, Justice Daniel Kelly. Go vote for Justice Daniel Kelly to defend the rule of law in Wisconsin. Daniel Kelly. We are aggressively combating the opioid epidemic and we’ve done great … Look, until you get rid of it, you never did great, but we have done numbers that nobody thought possible. In 2018, drug overdose deaths, the overdose deaths, fell for the first time in decades, including by 10% in the state of Wisconsin, 17, 18, 19 and even 21% in a couple of states. China is now putting a big stop, a big lid on Fentanyl, which is a disaster coming out of China. Said to president, “You’ve got to do it. People are dying, got to do it.” They’re doing it. We are fighting very hard for school choice and it’s moving along well in Wisconsin. Milwaukee created the first school choice program 30 years ago to free children for failing government schools, and now my administration is working to give school choice to every child in America who needs it.
 As we continue rebuilding our military, workers are building brand new Humvee replacements … you know about that … in Oshkosh and magnificent new little old combat ships in Marinette. A lot of ships, a lot of Humvees. I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. We recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, something they’ve been trying to get for 52 years. For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and we are standing up for you, the people of Wisconsin.
 At stake in our present battle is the survival of the nation. What these people are doing, they will destroy our nation. They will destroy our nation. And our last election was so important. I don’t know, maybe the most important ever, but it was so important. I really believe that this election maybe in its own way will be just as important. I can’t say more, but just as important, because we need time for that tree to grow. You plant a tree and it takes time. We need time for that tree to grow, and we have other things that we want to do. If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in 2020. Have to do it.
 Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all, and I have found out what a swamp it is. Bad people. I have become the expert all what a swamp. You know, when I used to say, “Drain the swamp,” I had no idea it would be that bad. But we’re winning. We’re here and they’re not. We’re winning. We’re winning. Bad people. Dishonest, bad people. With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration, which now we’re already doing. We’re already doing a lot of it.
 You’ve got to get loopholes. You know, you need their votes. We have loopholes, like visa lottery. We put names in a lottery and they come in, they become American citizens. Do you think these countries are giving us their finest? “Oh, let’s give them our best citizens, put them in.” These people are crazy to allow this to happen, so we’re stopping it all. But ending catch and release was a very big thing, and we did that with no Democrat help. They wouldn’t do it. It’s called loopholes. Who wouldn’t want to end loopholes?
 We will enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, “Made in the USA.” We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America in less than 10 years. Who would’ve thought that? We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.
 And above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America. We support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States of America. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. And we live by the words of our national motto, “In God we trust.” They’ll always be there. We’ll never let up remove it. Those words will always be there.
 From Milwaukee to Monroe, from Bayfield to Green Bay, good luck this weekend. And from West Bend to West Dallas, we stand on the shoulders of the most courageous men and women ever to walk on the face of the earth. Our American ancestors crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered science, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, landed men on the face of the moon, and made America the greatest nation in the history of the world, and we are making it greater than ever before. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement. We are one people. We are one family and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before, and ladies and gentlemen of Wisconsin, the best is yet to come. You watch. Because working together, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Wisconsin. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. I love New Jersey and I’m thrilled to be back right here in the Garden State. Thank you. The Garden State.
 Together we’re achieving historic victories for New Jersey families. You see it every single day. The New Jersey unemployment rate has reached the lowest of all time. More people are working today in the state of New Jersey than ever before. I have to tell you more people, almost 160 million, are working right now in the United States. That’s the highest level of employment in the history of our country. A lot of countries aren’t doing so well, just so you understand.
 Tomorrow we will replace the NAFTA nightmare, one of the worst trade deals ever in history, with the incredible brand new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement, the USMCA. A massive win for New Jersey workers, New Jersey farmers, New Jersey union people, New Jersey manufacturers and everybody.
 Weeks ago we also signed a fantastic new trade agreement with China that will boost New Jersey exports and defend New Jersey jobs. $250 billion coming in. Oh that’s going to be so nice. We’re restoring America’s industrial might like never before. They’re all coming back. They want to be where the action is.
 After years of devastating defense cuts we have fully rebuilt the United States military.
 Thanks to the incredible courage of our warriors, the greatest warriors in the world, the ISIS caliphate has been totally destroyed and its savage founder, and leader, al-Baghdadi is dead.
 Weeks ago, at my direction, the US military launched a flawless precision strike that killed the world’s number one terrorist Qasem Soleimani. Soleimani was responsible for murdering and wounding thousands of Americans, and actively planning new attacks, but we stopped him cold. Yet Washington Democrats, like crazy Bernie Sanders and nervous Nancy Pelosi, they opposed our action to save American lives. They oppose it. They oppose it. You know the roadside bombs that you see hurting our people and lots of other people so badly? The legs, the arms, wiped out. No legs, no arms. Soleimani loved that. That was his weapon of choice. We didn’t like him. He’s not around anymore.
 Well we are creating jobs and killing terrorists the Congressional Democrats are obsessed with demented hoaxes, crazy witch hunts, and deranged partisan crusades. It’s all they know how to do. The do nothing Democrats. They have spent the last three years, and probably even before I came down on that beautiful escalator with our beautiful future first lady, trying to overthrow the last election. We will make sure that they face another crushing defeat in the next election. We are going to have a victory that’s even greater than 2016. This November we are going to win back the House, we are going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep The White House.
 [crosstalk 00:06:51] Four more years.
 The American people are disgusted by the Washington Democrat … You see it. You see it. Which is worse, the impeachment hoax or the witch hunts from Russia? But we’re going to be signing up millions and millions of registered Independents, Democrat voters. Today I had the best polls that I’ve ever had since being elected. The best we’ve ever had. Remember I used to go over polls? But I only used to talk about them when I was doing well otherwise I wouldn’t. We had our best polls.
 Americans of all political beliefs are sick and tired of the radical rage filled left Socialists. I never saw anything … What’s going on in this country … What’s going on in this country, really the Democrat party is the Socialist party and maybe worse. Voters are making a mass exodus from that party and we are welcoming them to the Republican party with wide open arms. The Republican party is doing great.
 We are privileged to be joined tonight by a courageous leader who left the Democrat party because he has had enough of their extremism, enough of their Socialism, and enough of their vile hoaxes and scams. He’s had enough. I tell you he really is, he’s a brave guy. He just said, ” I’m not doing it. I’m not doing it. It’s a hoax, it’s a scam, I’m not doing it.” We called him, “You’re our kind of guy. Let’s go.” It didn’t take much because he believes like we do. We are truly honored to be here with the newest Republican member of the House of Representatives, your great congressman, Jeff Van Drew. I have to tell you a few weeks ago Jeff was one of the few brave and principled Democrat lawmakers, in all fairness we’ve been after him for a longtime, who stood up to the House Democrats and the outrageous abusive power that you see going on right now. They can’t win an election so they’re trying to steal an election. It’s not happening folks. It’s not happening. Jeff had the guts to defy the left-wing fanatics in his own party, and to stand tall in defense of our constitution, our freedom, and democracy itself. I just want to … I have to tell you, I’ve gotten to know him really well over the last couple of weeks. He’s a great guy, he’s a brave guy, he shares our values. He supports lower taxes, not bad. They want to raise your taxes.
 How did that work Jeff? How did you get elected with that one?
 Less regulation, a strong national defense. He loves our military, loves our vets, and police. He is a tireless champion for the state of New Jersey. He loves your second amendment, which is under siege by the Democrats.
 Jeff, it’s an honor to be with you. Please, please. Thank you. Thank you man.
 [inaudible 00:10:52] How about having the president right here in South Jersey? What a great day!
 Now I heard that the folks in this room can make more noise and more applause than anywhere in the world, so we’re going to do one more time for this man right here.
 For you. Now when I was in The White House with the president he asked how he could help me. I asked if he could come down to South Jersey and have a rally. Without even hesitating our president said yes and he is here. A man who kept his word to ensure that the eyes of the world are on South Jersey and all of us.
 The USA is a great nation. The greatest nation that civilization has ever known. Do we want to keep it that way?
 It’s a nation and a people of great exceptionalism. Do we want to keep it that way?
 Our president has made it clear, by restoring our military, protecting our economy, and by not allowing any other nation to ever take advantage of us again. Do we want to keep it that way?
 This year … This year, this very year, is a flashpoint election. Are we going to allow ourselves just to be like any other nation in the world or are we going to keep America great?
 I say to all of you may God bless South Jersey, may God bless our president, and may God bless the United States of America.
 We have tens of thousands of people outside. If anybody would like to give them your place please let us know, but we have thousands and thousands. Tens of thousands. Jeff gave me a number, he said, “175,000 people signed up.” Is that a fact?
 175? I think he’s on his way. I think he’s on his way. Thank you Jeff, great job. Thank you Jeff. Thank you Jeff.
 It’s been a little bit of a story. You see the fakers back there? Fake news. Fake. You know if another candidate has 1,000 people they say he spoke to a massive crowd. If they have 10,000, like Pocahontas went into Central Park in New York. This young men could have 10,000 people, you know that, in Central Park. She had 10,000 people like in Central Park. I said, “What’s the big deal?” They made it, “Oh the crowds are so large.” Jeff just told you he had 175,000 people sign up. Seriously you have to see outside. They know because they have to follow, they’re trailers. I call them trailers. But they’re fake. They’re fake. They’re not honest.
 Let me just tell you, so here’s the story, so we have these massive crowds that fill up stadiums every single time. We have tens of thousands of people outside. They never mention it. They never mention it, so maybe they will tonight. But that’s an all-time record. This is not a brand new place and unfortunately it holds 10,000 people or less. We set the all-time record. You know why? Because for games … See the floor packed with people? For games you’re playing ice hockey or basketball, so we broke the all-time record in this house. It’s a wonderful house in a wonderful community.
 Also in Wildwood, like we’re in the middle of winter. There is nobody in the middle of winter and it’s a great place in the summer. Those streets are packed all the way back to the airplane practically. But on June 2nd everybody has to do us all a favor. Number one you have to get out and vote Republican. Get rid of these clowns. You have to get out and vote for really a brave man. What he did was incredible. Jeff Van Drew, what he did was incredible. Get out and vote. He’s going to have a big victory. He’s going to have a big victory.
 We’re grateful to have with us this evening some wonderful friends of mine, people that I’ve known forever, your former governor who did a terrific job, Chris Christie. Chris. Great Chris, great job. Your wonderful Republican State Chairman Doug Steinhardt, what a job he’s doing. Thank you Doug. Thank you Doug.
 My campaign’s two great New Jersey co-chairs and I think we’ll play for the state … You know they all say Republicans can’t win. Tell me why? They said, “Should you move this to the Meadowlands?” I said, “No, I want to be in South Jersey. We want to be with our friends.” But we could have filled up the Meadowlands arena two or three times. Maybe we’ll do it during the summer. Should we do it during the summer?
 Maybe. But two brave guys, two great politicians. People that love our state. State senators Mike Testa and Joe Pennacchio. Joe Pennacchio. Thank you Joe. Thank you. Thank you. Two incredible New Jersey natives, you’ve never heard of Kellyanne Conway have you?
 And Bill Stepien. [inaudible 00:18:29] say something.
 And I love you back. Mr. President I think South Jersey is Trump country. Mr. President thank you for all you’ve done to add respect and resources to our military, to our great veterans. Having the best economy in the world. Two new trade deals. Two Supreme Court justices. Two dead terrorists. That’s two terms.
 South Jersey’s my home. Donald Trump’s my president. Melania Trump’s my First Lady. Life is great everyone. God bless you.
 I just want to thank Republicans because what they’ve been doing is incredible. Republican leadership in this country we’re winning, winning, winning like never before. We’re winning again and we’ve got a party that’s a very different part, a much stronger party, a much more inclusive party. We have a party that we love. We have a party that has the votes. We have a party like they’ve never had before. The Republican party respected again.
 I have to say this, America is winning again and America is thriving again like never before. Since the election we have created seven million new jobs. The average unemployment rate under my administration is lower than any previous administration, listen to this one, in United States history. That’s a good fact, the lowest in history.
 [crosstalk 00:20:56] Four more years.
 Thank you man. We have a great veteran up here and he said, “We love you. We love you.” The veterans. Are we doing good for the veterans? Thank you.
 African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment rates have reached the lowest levels ever recorded in the history of our country. Ever recorded! Women’s unemployment is at a 65 year low. Sorry about that. Soon it’s going to be historic. Another couple of good months it’ll be historic. 65 years for women.
 In the eight years before I took office over 300,000 working age people left the workforce. They had no choice. In just three years of my administration 3.5 million people have joined the workforce. Nobody believes it, including the fake …
 The workforce. Nobody believes it including the fake news. If I would have said that during the campaign that we were going to produce numbers like this, the fakeness would have been hitting me. He’s exaggerating. He’s lying, Pinocchio, Pinocchio. The press is very dishonest. More than two million millennials have gotten jobs and their wages have grown by nearly 5% every year, which is a record. A record number of Americans between the ages of 25 and 34 are now working, another record. Under the Trump economy, the lowest paid earners are reaping the fastest gains of anybody. You don’t hear that because this is a blue collar boom.
 It’s very nice. It’s about time. It’s about time. It’s been many, many decades. Earnings for the bottom 10% are rising faster than earnings for the top 10%, first time ever. Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage earners has increased, listen to this, by 47%, three times faster than the increase for the top 1%. Median household income is at an all time high. For President Bush, in eight years it was $450, over eight years. Think of this for a second. Under President Barack Hussein Obama, for eight years it was $975, so eight years, eight years, 450, 975 under your favorite President, and when you include the tax cuts, the regulation cuts that nobody’s ever cut taxes like this. Nobody’s ever cut regulations. That’s why all these jobs are being built. Under President Trump, for three years, the number is almost $10,000, and that’s three years, and it’s going up. It’s going up very substantial. That’s a big difference.
 New business applications in New Jersey have just soared to a record high, and we have lifted 10 million people nationwide off federal welfare. They’re off. They are off federal welfare. Nobody would’ve believed these numbers. Someday they’re going to write the true story. Our child tax credit alone is delivering $2,200 a year to 40 million American families. We have ended, so importantly for you, the war on American energy. The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. We don’t need anybody else’s energy anymore. It’s so nice. What happened in the last three years with energy is incredible, but extreme liberals in Washington want to shut down U.S. energy, including through the so-called Green New Deal.
 Close your factories. Get rid of your cows. You don’t have too many cows in Wildwood, but if you do, they’re gone. We will never sacrifice America’s energy independence. Took us a long time to get there, and we really picked it up over the last three years. What we’ve done is incredible, pipelines all over. Pipelines are good. They’re underground, they’re good, environmentally sound. To lift up forgotten communities that need investment the most. These are the communities that really have suffered. We created, with the help of a great gentleman from the state of South Carolina, You know who I’m talking about? Tim Scott, right? Senator Tim Scott, he’s an incredible guy. He really is. He came to my office and he had this idea that he’s wanted to do for a long time. Senator Tim Scott, opportunity zones, and jobs and investment are now pouring into nearly 170 newly designated opportunity zones right here in New Jersey, all over the United States. Billions, and billions, and billions of dollars, and not government dollars, they’re flowing into the opportunities zones into areas where investment was dead.
 For decades, politicians ran for office promising to protect American workers, but then they went to Washington and they lined their pockets with special address cash, and they shipped American jobs and dreams to other countries. They closed up your factories. They got rid of your jobs. They didn’t have to pay taxes. Globalist politicians lowered our economic defenses and allowed other nations to rob our factories, steal our farms and ransack our communities. Not anymore, not anymore, because we are defenseless no more because long last you have a President who puts America first. Is that okay?
 The United States laws, listen to this number, and you know if it was wrong, the fake news would be all over me, and I’ve been saying it for three years. The United States lost 60,000 factories and plants. Think of that. You wouldn’t think that’s possible because of stupid trade deals, because of bad leadership. During the 16 years of the two prior administrations, under just three years, my administration has now added 12,000 new factories, and many more are being built and they’re pouring back into the United States, because that’s where the action is. That’s where they want to be. They are pouring back into our country, new plants and factories. You see them all over. I passed two of them coming in, brand new, beautiful plants and factories. They’re pouring back in. This is where the action is. This is where they want to be. I see the leaders, they say, “It’s incredible what happened to your country.” I said, “Don’t tell me that. We want you to have your companies build plants in New Jersey and other places,” and that’s what’s happening.
 But on no issue have Washington Democrats thoroughly betrayed the American people than the issue of immigration. Left-wing, radical, politician support deadly sanctuary cities, and remember, a sanctuary city is a jurisdiction that refuses to hand over criminal aliens that are in local law enforcement custody. Instead, they order them to be released into your community. What the hell is going on? What is going on? Once set loose, these criminal aliens are free to continue their crimes spree against innocent Americans. Right here in New Jersey, your state’s Democrat leaders have instituted sanctuary policies that result in dangerous predators being set free into your community.
 For example, Cumberland County, we all know Cumberland County very well, right? Good luck with this one. They released an illegal alien criminal with multiple charges for sexual assault of a child. He is now at large, free to search for another innocent victim. They didn’t want to give him to ICE, and I want to thank ICE, because the abuse they take and the incredible job they do. Right here, another criminal alien was arrested for a violent assault in New Jersey. The sanctuary jurisdiction of Middlesex County defied the ICE request to detain him. Local authorities released him and he went on to commit a gruesome triple murder. I could read these cases, honestly, I could read and state these cases to you all night. I could state these cases to you all night. No American should ever be hurt, harmed or killed because left-wing politicians, Democrats, decided to shield and shelter… Look, look, wait. You have criminals that are on the streets that should be in jail. You have criminals that on the street that should be taken the hell out of our country and brought back to where they came from. By the way, ICE has removed thousands upon thousands of MS-13 gang members, the most brutal people. You don’t want to do that job. Maybe you do, a couple of tough people up there. Anybody want to be with ICE? You got a lot of tough people in New Jersey. New Jersey is different. I think New Jersey is different.
 No, but these ICE people, they love our country. They’re proud and they’re tough people, and they’ll go right into a pack. They call it a pack and they start swinging. Everyone’s swinging or they end up standing up. That’s the end of that, and you know what they do? They bring the MS-13 and many other gang members and other members back to El Salvador, back to Honduras, back to Guatemala, back to Mexico. I want to thank Mexico because you know what’s happening, right? Thousands and thousands at this moment, 27,000 soldiers from Mexico, protecting our Southern border. I want to thank the President.
 Democrats stand for crime, corruption and chaos. Republicans stand for law, order and justice, and say what you want, but those are the facts. We are removing these illegal criminals and gang members. We are literally taking them by so many, thousands and thousands, and we’re bringing him back. Thanks to our tireless efforts of border patrol to secure our border, we have reduced illegal border crossings seven straight months in a row. We have the numbers down by 75% since spring, 75%. We have ended catch and release and really, look, I had another party. I could get anything. If I wanted to spend money on anything, look with the military, we got two trillion dollars, right? More. Two trillion, all made in America, right? Everything. Best planes, best missiles, best everything, made in America. If I wanted to build anything, the only thing they put the whole weight of their party, they didn’t want us to have the wall. They knew it worked. Many of them voted five years ago for a wall. They just didn’t know how to get it built. I do. But what happened is through a series of court cases and other things, the money has won, and we are now building that beautiful wall, and this powerful border wall is going up at record speed and we just reached over 100 miles of wall, and by next year, we’ll be over 400 miles, and shortly thereafter it will be complete.
 A lot of people were saying a year ago, “He didn’t build the wall yet. He didn’t build the wall.” Let me tell you. When you have the strength of a party that has the House, okay, hopefully they’re not going to have the House for long. We’ll have a wonderful new speaker, will get rid of Nancy Pelosi, nervous Nancy, nervous Nancy. We’ll have Kevin McCarthy who’s been fantastic. We have to win back the House. But think of this. The wall, so many people were saying, “Build it.” Well, it’s not easy when you have the weight of an entire party and they control the House, not easy. We did it and frankly we were building the wall through the help of the military, the Army Corps of Engineers anyway, but you know what? Now we actually have the money and it’s going up very rapidly.
 In all due respect to Mexico, we like Mexico very much, and we’ve gotten along great with Mexico, and the President’s a friend of mine, and I think he’s doing a fantastic job. It’s a tough situation. But Mexico is in fact, you will soon find out, paying for the wall. Okay? They’d hit you with that. Now the wall is ultimately and very nicely being paid for by Mexico, and it’s an advantage for Mexico, too, when you think about it. The wall is a vital barrier for blocking deadly drugs from pouring into these communities. What we’re doing is stopping drugs at a record number. It’s still anything that comes over is too much, but we’re blocking it at a record number.
 I’m also very proud to report that we won a critical Supreme Court victory yesterday on immigration. We will now be finally able to enforce federal law, and ensure that those seeking admission to our country are able to support themselves financially and not abuse taxpayer funded programs. They were killing our country, killing our country. Washington Democrats have never been more extreme than they are right now. Frankly, they’re crazy. These people are crazy. They’re taking their cues from socialists like Bernie. Left-wing lawmakers are pushing a government takeover of health care that would strip 180 million Americans of their private health care plans, which many people like. The plans of every Democrat running for President would demolish the economy of New Jersey, where half a million new New Jersey workers are employed at some of the best and most innovative health care employment companies. We have them working at the companies, and we have people getting great health care. It’s been so long. It’s finally working and they want to destroy it. The Republican party will never let it happen. We are saving your health care while the Democrats are trying to take away your health care, take away your doctors, take away all of the good care that we fought, and we fought hard, and we’re doing well and now we’re doing better. By the way, some time prior to the end of the year, we’re putting in for a new middle income tax cut, a very big one. But we’re making health care better and much, much cheaper. We’ve done a great job in running it and we’ve given you a lot of alternatives. We are protecting people with pre-existing conditions and we always will, the Republican party, pre-existing conditions, we saved it. We are stopping surprise medical billing and making everything transparent. That’s a big deal, and that will take effect starting in about two months from now. Everything’s transparent. You’ll be able to see pricing. You’ll be able to go and price other hospitals, other doctors. It’s going to be an incredible thing. Nobody believes I was able to do it, but we did it.
 We are defending your right to keep the doctor and the plan of your choice. We are lowering drug prices. The Democrats are increasing drug prices. We are fighting the lobbyists and special interests. We are serving you and how are we doing? We’re doing good, right? But because of price transparency, we are getting it done. We’re approving more generic drugs than ever before in the history of our country. That means they come in, frankly, they’re just as good as the big names, but they sell for 80% less in some cases. We are unleashing innovation to cure diseases of all kinds. We are cutting out the rich middlemen and delivering prescription drugs directly to the consumers. These are all things that we had to fight like hell to get.
 We’re making less paperwork for your doctors and giving you easy control of your medical records, which is a big deal for a lot of people. We are prohibiting hospitals from hiding their prices and charging hidden costs. You go home, you say, “Oh, I’m feeling better. The doctor was fantastic,” and then they send you a bill for $25,000. That’s the end of that. All of a sudden the doctor wasn’t so good, right? We are making companies compete for your business. We are repealing burdensome taxes. We have accomplished more than any President in the first three years of their term by far, not even close.
 We have provided health insurance options, 60% cheaper than Obamacare, and we have historic investments in treating kidney disease, HIV, pediatric cancer and Alzheimer’s disease. We’re making so much progress. We have just passed a thing that I think is great. I never understood. For 45 years, they’ve been trying to get it passed. We’ve just passed a thing called Right to Try. You know what that is? So, we have the greatest doctors, the greatest technicians, the greatest labs in the world, and we’ll have a drug that’s looking good, but it’s going to take five more years, and by the way, we’ve brought the timing way down from 12 years to half of that, but it takes years to get it approved. You have people that are terminally ill. If they have money, they go to Asia, they go to Europe, they go all over the world looking for help. If they don’t have money, they go home and they die. What we did is a thing called Right to Try.
 People sign something and they don’t hold the country responsible. They don’t hold the drug company responsible. It’s called Right to Try, and they get the newest, and the best, and the latest medicine where it’s looking good, but you’re not going to have it for five more years, and you know why they didn’t do it? Because they didn’t want to hurt anybody, except the problem is the people were going to die soon. I said, “They’re terminally ill. Let them have it.” We sat down with a great group of leaders, Republican leaders, and honestly, we had some bipartisan support and we got it done. They’ve been tried to do it for 45 or so years. We got it done.
 You have to see the results, and I’ve seen some of the results. Some of the results are incredible. We’ve transformed veteran’s health care, including through VA choice, right? VA choice. For 48 years they’ve been trying to get veterans choice. I thought I had the greatest secret. You know, I haven’t been doing this that long, so four years ago, I’m campaigning for president. Everyone said, “No, he’s only having fun.” Yeah, it’s some fun. This is a lot of fun. Right? But for 45 years-
 But for 45 years they’ve been trying to get it Veteran’s Choice. So I come back one day, I say to my people, “I have the greatest idea. I am so smart.” I am like the smart- I have an idea because the veterans are waiting online. They’re waiting online for two weeks, three weeks, four weeks, ten weeks. Some are okay and they end up being terminally ill by the time they see the doctors, too long. And I said, “Folks, I have the greatest idea.” All of my people, I say, “I have the greatest idea. I’m so smart. Here’s what we’re going to do. We’re going to send all those people that can’t see a doctor, we just can’t get them to see a doctor. We’re going to send them down the road to private doctors and we’re going to pay the bill and they’re going to get fixed up.”
 Right? So smart. But you see, I said I was smart and they looked back at me and they said, “Sir, we’ve known about that concept for 45 years. We just can’t get it approved.”
 But I got it approved. And I got it approved about 11 months ago. And the VA is doing fantastically well. Our veterans are doing great. That was a big thing. That was a big thing. We also got accountability. Where people could mistreat our veterans, do whatever they want, they could be sadistic. They could be so many other things. They could steal, they could rob. You couldn’t do anything, you’d keep them. You couldn’t do a thing. We got accountability. Now you look at him, you say, “Get the hell out of here. You’re fired, you’re fired.
 Now you can fire. They’ve let go of more than 8,000 bad people. We have reduced opioid deaths for the first time, and very substantially, in 30 years. And we are modernizing critical vaccines. We’re doing a great job with vaccines. We are creating a pathway to buy drugs from Canada, that are much, much cheaper, in Florida. Governor Ron DeSantis came to me. He said, “Sir, this system is so bad.” And you can’t fix it unless you have democrat votes, that’s why you got to vote the house. You got to get us back the house.
 They say, “Sir, we can buy the drugs in Canada for 50% less.” The same drug made in the same factory, made by the same company. 50% and we can give the benefit for the people that live in Florida, or Colorado, or New Jersey, or wherever you are. This has been going on for a long time. No president has wanted to do it. You know how long it took me to make that decision? I said, “If you can say 50%, or 25%, or 15% buy it. Do it. Go.” And I gave him authorization, “Do it.”
 We are protecting Medicare for our nation’s seniors. Democrats want, and you know this, Democrats want to raid Medicare to fund benefits for illegal immigrants.
 And you know, we all have a heart. We all have a heart, but when you tell people to come into our country, like this clown governor of California, come into our country. They’re all going to come. If they think they’re going to get free education, free healthcare, they’re all going to come. If you don’t say it, they’re not going to come. Because who would even think this?
 Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion. Ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb, right up until the moment of birth. And that is why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.
 Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption. Look at what’s happening to their cities. Los Angeles, it’s so sad. What you see is so sad with the homeless and the way they don’t take care of the homeless. San Francisco, starting in New York. You could take a look at what’s happening to our cities run by Democrats. It’s a disaster. They don’t know what the hell they’re doing. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and the American dream.
 Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background and from every race, religion, color, and creed. We are asking all Americans to join our incredible movement. That’s what it is. It’s one of the greatest moments. It’s probably the greatest movement in history.
 The 2016 election was probably, I mean you could say, the greatest election in the history of our country.
 And now we have to do it again to keep it going. It’s like a giant tree, you plant it, but it takes time to grab on. We need this next election so badly. The good news is, it’s much easier, because here I’ve done it all. I’ve achieved more than I promised. I never told you about Space Force. We got Space Force. I never told you about all of these things that we got. We are a big tent party in the true idea. It’s big ideas, and we have a big future together.
 This country has tremendous potential, if we don’t blow it. To give former prisoners a second chance at life, we pass bi-partisan, criminal justice reform. They came to me, they couldn’t get it done, including many conservatives. And these people that I fight every day, they came to me, “Help, help, help. Criminal justice reform.” I got it done. As soon as I got it done, they don’t even want to mention my name. I got it done. I got people to vote for it that they could have never gotten. President Obama tried, he couldn’t get it done. President Bush couldn’t get it. They couldn’t get it done. That’s okay. They couldn’t get it done. I got it done. I got it done.
 And after I got it done, and I mean solely got it done, and after I got it done they had news conferences. They’re thanking people that I never even heard of. The only one they didn’t think was President Trump. And I got it done, but that’s the way it is. That’s why I always say you have to thank yourself because nobody else is going to do it.
 We’re fighting to give school choice to every child in America who needs it. During National School Choice Week, we reaffirmed that no parent should be forced to send their child to a failing government school. School Choice, very important. Democrats don’t want that.
 To uphold the rule of law, we have confirmed 191 brand new beautiful federal judges who will interpret the Constitution as written. And two great Supreme court justices, two great ones.
 As we rebuild our military, we have authorized over $160 million to support our warriors at a place called, huh, McGuire Air Force Base and Fort Dix. Have you ever heard of those places? Have you ever heard of those places, New Jersey? $ 160 million, two great places.
 I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. And we recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. Nobody else was going to do it. They’ve been trying to do that one for 52 years.
 For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the people of New Jersey. My friends.
 At stake in our present battle is the survival of our nation. I really mean that, it’s the survival of our nation. And if you would have had the other party winning this last election, instead of your market being up 72%. Instead of your 401ks being up numbers that you can’t even believe where your wife or your husband says, “Darling, you’re the most brilliant person in history. For years, you’ve been losing your ass with 401ks. Now you’re making a fortune.” Right? Right?
 Now you’re making a fortune. I have people coming up to me all the time. I had one gentlemen come up, “Sir. Thank you, sir. You’ve made me look so smart. My wife never respected me for anything, not anything. But now she thinks I’m a great investor. Thank you.” 401k.
 If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for it to secure, then we must devote everything that we have toward victory in 2020. We have to.
 And by the way, when we talk about inheriting victory in 2020 in our Nation, just so you understand, under a big tax cut biggest tax cut plan in history, guess what you have? You have a business, you have a farm, you have a small business, no more inheritance tax, no more what we call death tax.
 So if you love your children, they won’t have to mortgage the plant. They won’t have to be mortgage the farm, as the expression goes. They won’t have to mortgage anything, there’s no tax. If you don’t love your children, don’t leave it to them and then you do have a problem. No, I’m only kidding. Does anybody here not love their child or their children? Because if you don’t… There’s one man raising his hand. Nah, that’s a big thing. No more estate tax, no more death tax for your small farms and business. Those are things that people don’t even realize.
 Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all. And I never even knew the swamp was this bad. Swamp is bad, bad people. A lot of bad people in the swamp.
 [inaudible 00:53:47] Drain the swamp.
 We got a lot of bad people in that swamp. That swamp, the swamp creatures they call them. They are a [inaudible 00:11:35]. Step by step [inaudible 00:55:39] you thought this was going to be easy, right? A lot of bad people.
 With your help, we will lift millions of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity. That’s what’s happening together in our [inaudible 00:55:55].
 Together, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration. That’s what’s happening now. We will enact trade deals, the greatest deals ever made. That result in more product proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase “Made in the USA.” Beautiful.
 For decades we had politicians that didn’t care about that phrase. That phrase didn’t mean anything to them.
 We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine. Finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic, can you believe this, in America in 10 years or less. We’ve already started the process. And it could have been started sooner by the past administration, they chose not to do it. I chose to do it. Think of that, ending the AIDS epidemic within 10 years that we’ve started.
 We will defend privacy, free speech, religious Liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms, which is under seige.
 By the way, our second amendment is under siege. In Virginia, they want to take your guns away. It’s just the beginning. Never going to happen as long as I’m President of the United States. That I can tell you.
 But above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America. We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and in the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government bureaucracy, are the true American ways. And we believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.
 And we will always live by the words of our national motto, In God, We Trust.
 [inaudible 00:58:58] Four more years.
 Thank you, everybody. Thank you, very much, everybody.
 From Morristown to Vineland, and Patterson to Pennington. From Camden to Clifton, all the way down the shore to Ocean City and Sea Isle and Stone Harbor. And right here in Wildwood, New Jersey.
 This has always been the home of the proud, loyal, and very, very incredible Americans. And my friends, so many people in this group, I know them well. They’re tough. They’re smart, they’re great people. It’s called Jersey.
 This is the state that pioneered the boardwalk, the diner, and the motion picture. And gave the world American greats like Thomas Edison and Frank Sinatra, old blue eyes.
 Frank Sinatra. He was a piece of work, that I can tell you. New Jersey is the state where George Washington led a die hard band of American patriots to victory at Trenton, and Princeton, and Monmouth. In our glorious battle to win American independence, George Washington. This is the state where generations of tough and strong New Jersey craftsmen and dock hands, farmers and factory workers built this country into the single greatest nation on the face of the earth. And we are making it greater and greater every day. It will never be better than what’s coming. There’ll never be anything like what we’re doing.
 Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people.
 With your help and your devotion, with your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting. And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of New Jersey, place I love, the best is yet to come. Because together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you. New Jersey. Thank you. Thank you.
 Wow. Thank you. So where else would you like to be but a Trump rally, right? [inaudible 00:02:58] Hello Colorado. We love Colorado, most beautiful place And I’m thrilled to be back in Colorado Springs. I’ve spent a lot of time here over the years. Beautiful place, beneath the majestic peaks, that’s true, of the Rocky Mountains with thousands of terrific, hardworking, great American patriots.
 With your help this November, we are going to defeat the radical Democrats and we are going to win Colorado in a landslide. And you’re going to help us get Cory Gardner across that line because he’s been with us 100%. there was no waiver. He’s been with us. There was no waiver with Corey. We appreciate it. Thank you Corey. Thank you.
 This month we mark a very special anniversary. 75 years ago this week our brave United States Marines landed on the shores of Iwo Jima and began one of the bloodiest battles of the second world war. It was a rough one. Tonight it’s our great privilege to be joined by three of the heroes of the Battle of Iwo Jima, James Blaine, Donald Whipple and John Thurman. Great, great patriots, very brave people.
 And tonight we also honor the life and extraordinary, really of a very extraordinary American hero, one of the last known survivors of the attack on the USS Arizona at Pearl Harbor on December 7th, 1941. He was in the Oval Office just recently, a little while ago, about a year and a half ago and we just want to pay our respects. Okay, you know it is, Donald Stratton. [inaudible 00:00:05:40]. Just passed away. Sadly he passed away just a few days ago. He was going to be here. Passed away a few days ago, but he was great. I have a beautiful picture of him right outside and we’re going to honor him and his family. Great, great gentlemen. So we were going to have four. We have three and we want to thank you for being here. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Because America is truly a land of heroes, on behalf of the grateful nation I would like to recognize the many veterans of the Vietnam War and the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars who are here this evening, and a lot of them. Great people, great people.
 This is a truly incredible time for America. We have the best economy in our history, the most prosperity of any country. We are doing better than any country in the world, that is not even close. And we’ve rebuilt our military over the last three years. Don’t tell anybody, but we spent two and a half trillion dollars. But when it comes to our military and our safety and our security, we don’t worry about budgets, right? We don’t worry about budgets. We had to rebuild it. It was depleted. It was in bad shape. It was old, it was tired. We have the best people in the world, but they had old equipment. Now we have brand new jets. We have brand new missiles and rockets. We have everything all made in the USA. In my State of the Union Address, I proudly declared that we are in the midst of the great American comeback. That’s what we’re doing. Our country is stronger today than ever before. After three years of ridiculous witch hunts and scams and partisan Democrat crusades, the radical left’s attempt to poison our democracy and overturn this last election have totally failed. They have been a complete flop and we today have the highest poll numbers we’ve ever had today, just came out.
 And I don’t know if anybody watched last night’s debate, it got very big ratings and you know what? Mini Mike didn’t do well last night. I was going to send him a note saying it’s not easy doing what I do, is it? It’s not easy, Mike. Not easy for any of them. Now, Mike didn’t do too well. He went way down. It’s all right. Mini mike. How about Klobuchar, did you see her? She choked. She choked. She couldn’t breathe. Alfred E. Neuman looked at her and said something slightly derogatory and she said, “Are you accusing me of being dumb?” Who would make a statement like that? Because that’s really what he was doing, but he doesn’t want to say that. No, how about that? “Are you saying I’m dumb?” That was the end of her campaign in my book. You don’t say that. Even if it’s true, you don’t say that. They had a crazy person on today on one of the Fox shows. I tell you, Fox doesn’t treat us the way they used to. But we have the great Sean Hannity, we do, and we have Laura and Tucker. And we have in the morning Fox and Friends, Steve and Ainsley, and Brian’s gotten much better, he’s moving up. And we have the great Lou Dobbs. Lou Dobbs says he’s the greatest president ever. The great Lou Dobbs. He says, Lou Dobbs a year and a half, two years ago he said, “He’s the greatest since Reagan.” Then he said about six months ago, “He’s better than Reagan.” And then he said a few nights ago, “He’s the greatest we’ve ever had.” I said, “Does that include Lincoln and George Washington?” He said, “That includes them all.” That’s Lou Dobbs. The great Lou Dobbs. And you’ve got Hegseth and you’ve got Jesse Waters. How about Jesse? And Judge Jeanine and even Greg Gutfeld. Greg hated us, right? But now he says, “Look, whether I like him or not, he gets it done. It’s all about getting it done.” We’re getting it done. Nobody’s ever done what we’ve done. No, but Fox says, and I don’t know, it’s different. It was different. In the old days, it was better for us. It was better for us. But it’s okay, we’ll win anyway.
 No, but they had this woman on. Neil Cavuto, doesn’t treat us good. Neil Cavuto, he’s not too good. She said, “I don’t like him.” Nobody likes him. Right now… So you had, remember Lest in The Readies? You remember who was Lest in The Readies? He got fired, right? You remember, right? Remember? He’s gone and now Neil’s taking his place. Neil is actually a nice guy, but he doesn’t like Trump too much. And he put this woman on today and she said, “Donald Trump didn’t do well in the debates and he won,” because she was referring to Mike Bloomberg, sometimes referred to as Mini Mike. And I said, “Wait a minute, I won every debate.” It’s true. And we sent them polls, poll after poll after poll. Not only won them, but won by a lot. I won every debate. I’m just saying every poll, they do those polls right after, three, four, 500,000 people, Time Magazine. I said, “Nobody’s allowed to do that. You can’t do that.” We’re at enough of a disadvantage with the fake news. They make up 90% of the story.
 So where is Dan Scavino? Where is Scavino? Does anyone know who Dan Scavino is? Dan, bring me those pages up here. Bring those pages up. See if you can get them. Go get them. It’s such fake news. It’s so disgusting. You know what? They’d do better if they told the truth. Do you agree? They’d do better. Oh, someday in 10, 14, 18, 22 years when I’m gone, when we leave office in 26 years or so, they’re going to miss us.
 I told the story that a month before I ran, 2016 I was thinking about it. I said to my wife, who has become a great First Lady. People love here. They said it’s one of the greatest fields ever assembled. And I said, “What the hell should I run for if they are so great?” But I remember holding up the New York Times and it was like a leaflet that you give a certain, a supermarket, right? It’s like, the thing was blowing in the wind. It was dead and now it’s successful again. But when we leave, it’s all of us. We leave together. We’re unified. This is the most unified the Republican party has ever been. And when we leave, the New York Times… Thank you. The great Dan Scavino, the most powerful man in politics.
 Hey Dan. So Zuckerberg left. Who is number one in the world on Facebook? And I’m saying this in front of the fake news because if I’m wrong, they’re going to report me, right? Who is number one in the world on Facebook?
 He walked in, but that’s us. He walked in for… We had dinner recently just because I want them to pay taxes. I want to find out what’s going on. But he walked in, he’s smart, and he said, “I just want to congratulate you.” Small dinner, a few people. He said, “You’re number one in the world in Facebook.” I said, “That’s nice.” I said, “Who’s number two?” He said, “Prime minister Modi of India.” I said, “Wait a minute, wait a minute. He’s got 1.5 billion people and we have 350 so he should be number one.” But we’re never going to give up that position of number one in the world for our country, for Facebook, for Twitter, for anything, and they still haven’t figured it out. They have not figured it out. But look at all that press. Look at all that press.
 By the way, how bad were the Academy Awards this year? Did you see it? And the winner is a movie from South Korea. What the hell was that all about? We got enough problems with South Korea with trade, on top of it they give them the best movie of the year. Was it good? I don’t know yet. I’m looking for, let’s get Gone with the Wind. Can we get Gone with the Wind back, please? Sunset Boulevard. So many great movies. The winner is from South Korea. I thought it was best foreign film, right? Best foreign movie. No, it was the [inaudible 00:16:25]. Did this ever happen before? And then you have Brad Pitt. I was never a big fan of his. He got upset. A little wise guy statement. A little wise guy. He’s a little wise guy.
 Anyway, but we’re doing what? Over here, I just showed this real quick. Right? So this horrible journalist, she’s a real, she’s a Trump hater. You know what she’s worth? Zero ratings. Nobody watches her, but she said… she was trying to… Look, Bloomberg made a fool out of himself last night. He choked. He’s another one who’s going, ” Oh I can’t breathe. I can’t breathe. Don’t ask me the question, please.” I look at my wife, I said, “Let’s send him a little note. It’s not so easy up there to do what I did, right?” Not so easy.
 But this woman who is a third rate, fourth rate, she’s been with everybody. Every year she’s with a different group, but I won’t use her name because it’ll make her too famous. It actually plays to their advantage. But she’s third rate and she’s on the lowest rated show at Fox, Neil Cavuto. That’s why. So she said, “Donald Trump didn’t get good ratings. He didn’t do well in the polls.” She said, “He didn’t do well on the debates.” She said that we were defeated in the debates. Well I defeated crooked Hillary every time and by a lot. Yeah, she’s crooked as a $3 bill. I was going, “Whatever happened to the 33,000 emails? Whatever happened?” 33,000, she deleted them and her acid washed them and she didn’t get in trouble. Can you imagine if a Republican did that? They would want to bring back the death penalty, right? Two standards. But I think things are happening.
 I said drain the swamp, I just never knew how deep it was. We have more garbage in the swamp than you would ever believe. And this is part of the swamp. So what happens? She said, “Donald Trump didn’t do well in the debates.” Now remember my answer, Rosie O’Donnell, right? First question I’ve ever, and we took down the house. Then the second, Brett Barry asked me, I had to raise the hand. I’m the only one, I guess that raised the hand. Right? And the place went crazy because I was the only one telling the truth. Okay? Turns out I was the only one telling… And the people get it. But she said I didn’t do well on the bench. I said, “Really? I won every single debate.” We had 15 to 14 debates, then we had the presidential debates with crooked Hillary against myself. So here’s one. I don’t want to… I’m a little guilty because these are all my friends, right? A lot of them are my friends now. They weren’t my friends then, they were my mortal enemy. It’s hard to be friends when you’re competing against somebody.
 You’re right about that. So here’s Donald Trump, 67. The next one was 13%. the next one was 5%, 4%, 3%, 2%, 2%, 2%, 1%, 1%, and 0. All right, that’s Time Magazine. All right, that’s Time. They don’t like me. I don’t like them either, by the way. Although actually I do like the new owner. This year I got beaten out by Gretta. You know Gretta? Last year I got beaten out… I mean, I’ve won it. But when the world evolves around all of us, we should be chosen. There’s nothing wrong with it, right? I mean, we’ve won it, but we should win it every single year, let’s face it. And now they call it person of the year. They don’t go out man of the year. And I know the women out there are saying, “Isn’t that nice?” But a lot of the women out there don’t like it. They don’t like it. We could have a woman of the year and a man of the year. I like that.
 Okay, here’s Drudge Report. Drudge is starting to treat me good again. He started to like me again. I like him. Look, Trump and Ted Cruz, I can say he came in second. He was a great debater. And Marco came in third and a guy who I don’t like much and they don’t like him much in Ohio either, Kasich. Kasich. He was way down. Way down. Okay, look who won? Trump. Here’s another one. Look again, a different one, Time Magazine. Trump, 33%. Ben Carson, good man, he was down. Marco, Jed, Ted. Carly Fiorina, a name I haven’t heard in a long time. What happened to Carly? And ran, good poll. Here’s the story. Look, but way up. Way up. Look at this. Here’s another one. Look at this. Trump 46%. I didn’t make this up. Here’s another one. This is a different debate. I don’t know. They’re all different. I won every one of them. Look, Trump, I just took these at random, 46%. second, 5%, 3%, 5%, 3%, 9%, 5%, 11%. Trump, 46%. Here’s another one, CNBC. Well, the market’s been up. They’ve actually been not so bad and Joe Kiernan is a good guy. He is a good guy. Some of the rest, I don’t care for it too much. Becky’s like, she plays it a little bit down in the middle, right? Which is okay. Trump, almost 50%. Then they have all the rest of them. 14, 4, 3, 2, 2.8, 2.54, 1.9, I’m not going to give you the names. I won’t tell you that I got 48.8 and Jeb Bush got 1.1. The rest I’m not going to talk about, but he hasn’t been exactly a great supporter, sort of a never Trumper I guess. So Jeb, 1.9, 1.1, and Trump 48. That’s another one. Oh, here’s a nice one. Here’s a nice one. Look at this. Look at this. Trump 70%, next one is 18%, next one is 7, 4, 3, 3, 3, 2, 1, 1, 1. Trump didn’t do well in the debate. See, they’re fake news.
 Here’s another one, Trump Kicked Ass. Trump Kicked Ass. Trump 48, number two was six. Here’s another one. Trump 75.6, crooked Hillary was 24%. This was against crooked Hillary. So look at that. Trump was 74.6, crooked Hillary Clinton was 24.1. Trump was 80%, crooked Hillary was 18%. And I’ve got this woman. You know who it is, right? Nobody knows the name. I’m not going to mention it. But everybody knows Neil Cavuto. She has no credibility and neither do you, Neil Cavuto. Here’s another one. Crooked Hillary, and by the way, one is a Fox poll, one is Breitbart, one is a Drudge report. One is a Patch, one is Syracuse.com, one is Pollack Opinion, Alyssa Goodwin. But look at these numbers. Trump 92. What is it?
 So I’m winning every poll, I beat crooked Hillary. Here’s the one, Trump 61, crooked Hillary 39. Okay? That’s what it is. And then I turn on the damn show on Fox. Again, it’s not the same. It was much better. It really was. It was much better. I turn on Fox and I’ve got this third rate political journalist, if you call her that saying, “Trump did very poorly in the debates, but he became president.” No, I did great in the debates. I became president because of the debates, because unlike Mini Mike, I could answer questions.
 And here’s the final one and I could get you another 15. These are all the ones that taken right after. People call in, hundreds of thousands of people, they call in Time Magazine, CNBC. So here’s a CNBC, crooked Hillary Clinton, 39%. Donald Trump, 61%. and then this stupid person said I didn’t debate well. Now look, I don’t mind and you can have bad debates, but I won every single debate. Listened to this, then three and a half, four years later I have to listen to a person saying how we didn’t do well, because these people are among the most dishonest people anywhere in the world. Take it. Take it. Here it is.
 Okay, let’s get back to business. Now I feel good. Now I feel good. She’s a third rate journalist. Let’s go. We’re standing up in defense of our constitution, our freedom and democracy itself, right? While the extreme left has been wasting America’s time and doing all sorts of vial hoaxes, we went through hoaxes. We went through the impeachment scam. And by the way, Corey was with us all the way. He didn’t move. He didn’t budge. He said it’s a lot of bull. He said it’s a lot of bull. But while they’re doing that stuff and we’re working with a cloud, we’re working with these people. They want to take you out. They want to change the results. They got caught spying, let’s say it like it is, right? They got caught spying on our election. Fake news.
 Hey fake news, take your cameras for a change and show them the room and show them behind you. Go ahead, show them the room. Show them the room. You see, they never do it, including Fox, by the way. Fox is not that much better. We just got lucky because we have some… All their high rated shows are the shows that like Trump, all their losers shows like Cavuto are the shows that don’t like Trump. How is Shep Smith doing lately, by the way? How is Shep Smith? He had the lowest ratings and now Cavuto took his place so that’s okay. But they never show the room.
 My wife, a great First Lady, she goes… I say, “Hi honey. Did you watch the debate?” “Yeah.” “How did the room look? Was that…” because last night I think we turned away 21,000 people. We had an arena that it held 12, but we fill up the basketball courts, right? Or the ice rink. We had to have 15, 16,000 people. It was on fire. You all saw it. It was great. And she said to me, she said, “Darling, how did you do?” I said, “I did great.” I said, “Did you see the arena?” And she said, “No, they never show the arena.” You know that guy Dana White at UFC? I won’t tell you about him yet, but he’s a brilliant guy, right? I mean, he sold his crazy fighters, I mean bomb bomb bomb. $4 billion he got with Fertittas, great people. But you know what? They’re always showing it’s full. It’s full. These fakers back there, they don’t want people. But I’ll tell you what my wife said, “They don’t show it, but you can’t imitate 15,000 people when it comes to the noise.” Look, they won’t show it. They never show it and we’ve never had an empty seat from the day I came down the escalator, not one.
 What these guys do if Mr. And Mrs. Jones sitting right up there, beautiful couple. If she said, “Darling, I’m sorry, there’s nothing I can do about it, darling. I have to go to the bathroom.” He said, “Darling, I’ll walk with you.” The cameras glong on to those seats, they glong on and they say, “There were two empty seats. Trump didn’t fill up the room.” These are the worst people. But when I told them to spin around those cameras, they stayed that way.
 Now, if we had a protestor somewhere in the arena, it could be up in that corner where it’s loaded up with people, those cameras that can do, they look like a pretzel. They look like a pretzel. They want to find it. There’s trouble, those same guys could, it could cover anything. I used to think, well it’s the equipment, it’s very rigid. They can’t turn it. And then some idiot from up in the corner starts screaming stupid stuff, because that’s dangerous in this room, to be honest. We don’t have it too much. They only pick on the guys that are all by themselves and aren’t fighters. But if somebody up there does something, those cameras turn around, spin around like a pretzel. They bend, boom, they get. So that was the end of my theory that we have rigid equipment. And by the way, I told them, turn around, not one of those cameras turned around to show the room because it’s fake news.
 While the extreme left has been wasting America’s time with vial hoaxes, we’ve been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border and lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed, right? We added another 225,000 brand new beautiful jobs last month, way, way, way above what our great geniuses back there thought it would be, 225,000. Think of it, we right now have more people working in our country than at any time in the history of our country, almost 160 billion.
 And right now since the election, we go by the election. Don’t forget, a lot of things happened when we won. From the day we won that beautiful November day, the most exciting night in the history of television, including UFC fights, the most exciting night, the biggest ratings in the history of television worldwide. They were watching. I have friends in Paris and London. “What are you doing?” “I’m watching,” 3:00 in the morning, 2:00 in the morning, 5:00 in the morning, they are watching. The whole world was watching. That was the most exciting television that anybody’s ever seen. Even ESPN, some guy on ESPN said, “This is the most exciting event I’ve ever seen.” And all he does is watch sporting events and big ones. But since the election, 7 million brand new beautiful jobs have been added and we’ve invested more than $2 trillion into that military that we talked about. And we created-
 Into that military that we talked about, and we created something that’s very exciting. And we have our great new General. He’s on the … he’s on our … I’ll tell you, he was on a list of the most incredible men you’ve ever seen. The sixth branch of the United States Armed forces, the Space Force.
 And I will be making a big decision for the Space Force as to where it’s going to be located, and I know you want it. We’ll be making that decision toward the end of the year. I was here, I did your … I met … I was up at the Air Force Academy, and I greeted those kids, they were so great. I did the commencement address. Was anybody there? I did the commencement address. And the General said, sir, would you like to shake hands with the cadets? I said, does everyone else do it, President? Oh, yes, sir. What he didn’t say is, they’ll shake 10 hands. I said, so they do … how many do you have? Sir, we have 1156 cadets. I said, you mean other people do it? Yes, sir. But they don’t do 1156. They’ll do 30, 40. They’ll take the top 10 out of the class. I said, I’ll do it.
 I stood there for two and a half hours and the sun was blazing. True. And I shook 1156 hands. And a lot of these kids are very strong physically. In fact, you have one of them as an example, he was the winner of the home run derby. Did you know that? College … think of that. The college home run derby. I said, let me see you. I want to see what you look like. He stands up, uniform, everything else. And by the way, I did something for Air Force, but I did something for all of the academies. If you were a great athlete and they had a hard time recruiting, although they’ve done well, if you’re a great athlete, you can’t … we wanted to get them to go, but they didn’t because they didn’t want to serve five years in the military and then they’d go into the NFL or baseball.
 So, I had one of the teams in. They said, sir, give us the waiver, sir. They’ve been after the waiver. You know what the waiver is? That means that if you’re a great athlete, you can go to the Air Force Academy, or Army, Navy, the Coast Guard, you can go to one of our service academies. I did the rule and we got it through Congress. And you don’t have to serve. You go directly into the major leagues and to the NFL, and you serve your time after, when you get out. Isn’t that great?
 And the Army coach, who’s a great guy … all great guys. Navy coach, Army coach, said sir, if you do that, we can compete with anybody, because we lost lot of great athletes who said, you know, we just can’t do that. Now they serve their time afterwards. Isn’t that great? And we did it. They’ve been trying to get that for so many years. But I love that group of people. I saw this guy from the home run derby, and I shook hands. Oh, I shook hands. And they come up and they’re strong people. And they’re shaking, and they’re excited. They’re a little nervous, maybe. They’re meeting the President. They’re a little nervous, and they’re strong. They’ve got big, strong hands, and they’re saying … and I’m saying, hello. Sir, thank you. Man. Jeez. What are you? I’m captain of my wrestling team, sir. I admire you greatly, sir, thank you, sir.
 It’s like … and I’m trying to act like it doesn’t hurt. By the end of the day, I’m going like … but we did it. And then I said, wait a minute. I said, General, no other President could do that. The Presidents don’t do that. He said, no, they do, sir, but they stop, usually, at around 50. Oh, that’s great. But I love the Air Force Academy. And you have all of the infrastructure, so you’re being very strongly considered for the Space Command. Very strongly.
 And actually, I have to say this. I think I can say this, Mr. Senator, but the Governor showed up at the plane today, your Governor. Democrat. No, but in all fairness, he showed up because he wanted to lobby to see if they could get it. That’s okay, that’s all right. And we are going to be making that decision, Cory, when we make that decision, all right? Okay.
 But we’ve destroyed the ISIS territorial caliphate 100 percent. We killed the founded and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. He’s dead. He’s dead. And we just killed the world’s number one terrorist, Qasen Soleimani, ending his evil reign of terror forever. Forever and ever.
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
 He was the king of the roadside bomb, right? When you see these young men and in some cases women, no legs, no arms. They get it, and 92 percent of them were from Soleimani, and then they started making them … they had great detection. We had these guys, great detection, then all of a sudden, the detection wasn’t working because they started making them out of plastic instead of metal. So they’re blowing the guys up with the scopes, so they had the scopes on and that happened recently because they started making it out of plastic. Real scum, but he’s gone, he’s evil, he’s dead, and America is respected again like never before.
 But as we keep on winning, Washington Democrats keep on losing their minds. They’ve gone nuts. That’s why millions of registered Democrats, voters, people that were with the Democrats for a long time, they’re leaving their party to join our movement. They’re joining our great Republican party. We have more enthusiasm than any party has had in the last 50 years. And don’t believe stories, and don’t believe polls, because the polls are worse than the stories. They give phony polls.
 I got a call two weeks ago. The great state of Texas. They love me and I love them. Remember Beto? Remember? I was born for this. I was born. I said, any guy that says that, they’ve got problems. Well, he had problems. So he’s from Texas. He had a little problem, he came out against oil and gas, the Bible, and guns. Abraham Lincoln couldn’t win Texas if you’re against … think of it. So he’s against religion, he’s against guns, and he’s against oil. Somehow, that doesn’t play. But they had … listen to this one, because this happened four years ago, you remember? Donald Trump is in trouble in Texas. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. And then they announce at night, 8:00. The polls have closed … and you know they only announce if you’re very … if you’re really going to win by a lot. Otherwise, it takes all night. The polls have closed in the great state of Texas. Donald Trump has won the great state of Texas. Thank you.
 But they had Alfred E. Newman, Buttigieg, little Buttigieg. I said, I’ve had you up to here. They had little Buttigieg leading Donald Trump in Texas. These people. But very close. They said, it’s too close to call, where Buttigieg … so, a friend of mine from Texas, a big, powerful, strong guy, real Texas, he’s got the cowboy hat … I’d love to wear that hat, I wouldn’t have to comb my hair so much. I wouldn’t need hairspray, right? I love those Texas hats. I don’t know if we’d get away with it in Washington, that’s my only problem, but I love them. This guy wears that big hat, the biggest hat. He’s a big guy. And he’s interviewed by somebody. He said, listen, I don’t know much about politics, but I can tell you one thing. Buttigieg is not tied with the President. The President is leading him by 20 points. It’s like I said the last time, nobody’s leading Trump in Texas. And you know what? Nobody is even close to us in the great state of Colorado. We’re leading big. Nobody.
 With your energy and enthusiasm, this November, and specifically it’s November 3rd is the big day, and this is going to be as big … and I can’t say bigger, because what was bigger than that? They came from the hills, they came from the mountains, they came out of the rivers, they came all over the place. Great people, they just never saw anybody they wanted to vote for. Women would come in, they hadn’t voted in 20 years, great women, beautiful women, strong women, smart women, wives. No, no, incredible. And they love our country and they work hard and they pay their taxes and they work and they’re … we’re the elite, just so you … they’re not the elite, we’re the elite. And you know what? They’d show up, they’ve got Trump bandanas along with our great Vice President Mike Pence, Trump Pence, and they got the hats now and they walk … these are people that were never political people. They never wore a pin. Now they’ve got 30 pins all over their chest, they’ve got the hats with the things and the Trump, and nobody’s ever seen anything like it.
 Really, it’s a great revolution, and we’re turning this country around. And I’m not saying anything can ever compete with 2016, but I think if we don’t do it, a lot of what we’ve done, and we’re going to go over the jobs and the regulation cuts and what we’ve done for the vets with choice and accountability, but you know what? They can undo it, but in four years they can’t undo it, because that tree will be planted. It will be solid. They’re not going to be able to do it, so we’ve got to win.
 And your second amendment is at stake, remember that. So this November, we’re going to take back the House, we’re going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep the White House. So we’re thrilled tonight to be joined by many great leaders from across this incredible state and from all over the country, and I want to thank Mike Pence. I heard he gave a great speech. I never want it to be too good. I never want it to be too good. I said, Mike, take it easy. Can’t be too got. Mike is great. But we have Secretary David Bernhardt, Department of Interior. Thank you. Come on up, Dave. He’s great. What he’s doing, by the way, he’s the largest landlord by a factor of about 2000. Department of the Interior. You’re taking good care of Colorado, please? Okay. He’s a big deal in Colorado, right? He’s a big deal. All those beautiful mountains and rivers and lakes, he’s the guy. You better keep them nice and clean. Believe me, we like the environment more than anybody. We want clean water and we want clean air.
 And you have warriors. You have guys, they fought for us. 197 to nothing. We were … when you think of it, the Republicans, 197 on the house to nothing. Congressman Ken Buck, come on up. Congressman Scott Tipton. And Congressman Doug Lamborn. Thank you, Doug. Thank you.
 And we’re also joined tonight by somebody that you really love, and I love him, too, but there’s a reason. He’s my son. Don junior. And Kimberly Guilfoyle. Kimberly, thank you, Kimberly. And a man … he happens to own the Chicago Cubs, but that’s okay. He’s done an incredible job, actually. He had a five year plan on the fifth year, the stadium was fully rebuilt, and they won the World Series. That’s not bad. He had a five year plan. RNC finance chairman Todd Ricketts. Come on up, Todd. Come on up. Come on up, Todd. And I mentioned him a little earlier, but you didn’t know he was here. I just said he’s a champion, he’s a winner. He’s been a friend of mine for a long time. He’s a tough cookie. He’s the kind of people that made our country great. Truly, they’ve made our country great. He started off with two people fighting each other, then he got four people fighting each other, then he got them fighting each other, each other. Then he got six and eight and 12. All of a sudden people started watching and looking, and I was proud to hold his first event. That’s why he loves me. They didn’t want … they said, it’s too dangerous. Nobody would take it. I’m the only who said, take it. We’ll take it. And it was unbelievable. I went and I said, this is great. Let’s do it again. And he has been my friend for a long time. And they put together a phenomenal deal, it’s called UFC. He’s the UFC president. And they just sold the company. He started it off for about $ 30, and they just sold it for $4 billion. And the people that bought it said, we’re not buying it unless Dana White stays back and runs it. So Dana White, come on up. He’s now a very wealthy guy. Come here. You want to hear from him? Yes.
 What’s up, Colorado? How are you today? So, I’m not a very political person, I’ll start there, but let me say this. There’s things that I can tell you about the President of the United States that you don’t hear on t.v. and you don’t hear from other people. Like you said, I’ve known this man for 20 years. We’ve actually become even closer since he’s become the President of the United States. When somebody becomes the President of the United States, you don’t ever expect to hear from them again, and I understand it. It absolutely makes sense. This guy is so loyal and such a good friend, every time I see him … I saw him today. When I met him on Air Force One, the first thing he said to me is, how is your family? How is your family? Good man, very loyal, and a very good friend. I see a lot of things from Mr. Trump that the public doesn’t see, and the people who surround me every day see how this man treats me as a friend, and other people he’s friends with. He’s a fighter, he loves this country, he’s doing great things for this country, and we got to win this election again, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
 That was beautiful, because we get tired of hearing from these politicians all the time. Right, politicians? What a job he does, and we thank you very much, Dana, and you are my great friend, and thank you.
 So, I want to bring up a man who’s going to win the election with us. And really, he has been so rock solid. There were stories, will he … because we’re doing great in the state. We’re doing great. And your second amendment, you like the second amendment, it’s [inaudible 00:52:52]. But with Cory and with me, they’re not going to play with your second amendment. Not going to happen, but it’s … it is under siege. You see what’s happening. But somebody … we fight together, and he’s been so great. Cory Gardner, please come on up, please.
 Good evening, Colorado. How’s everybody doing? Now I want you to give a great, big, Pikes Peak welcome to the President of the United States. Now, I think they heard you on Pikes Peak, but they didn’t hear you on Mount Garfield. Give him another round of applause. Colorado, we are going to win. We are going to win because we believe in Colorado. We are going to win because we believe in America. We are going to win because we will fight against the socialist tides across this country. The Democrats are trying, but they’re not going to win.
 Look, there was a dangerous thing that happened in 2016. It was the normalization of socialism by Bernie Sanders. The most dangerous thing was the normalization of socialism by Bernie Sanders, because what happened? Candidates started running as socialists. They embraced the platform. And today, there aren’t shades of socialism. They are running to the left on a socialist platform. They want to take our guns, they want to take our healthcare, that’s their platform. What they say they will do, Colorado, are we going to let it happen?
 We will no. Mr. President, you have done so much good for Colorado. As a result of your work, the Bureau of Land Management is now headquartered in the great state of Colorado. United States Space Command and Space Force are operating out of Colorado Springs. And just a few miles to the south, a few miles to the south … please understand how big this is. In 1962, President John F. Kennedy went to Pueblo, Colorado, and he talked about building a pipeline in Pueblo, Colorado. Was it built?
 We got the money two weeks ago to begin construction thanks to President Donald Trump. Colorado, Dana White is here. What does it take to win a cage fight? We need a fighter. And in Colorado, we are going to fight for this country. We are going to fight for the White House. We’re going to maintain a Senate majority because we need to continue the great work of freedom in this country. Colorado, make us proud. Stand strong, and together, we will win. Thank you.
 Thank you. That’s beautiful. That’s true of the pipeline. A long time they’ve been trying. We got it right away, and we’ll be announcing something very big toward the end of the year. Cory is a champion for the people of Colorado. He loves your state. Look, he loves your state. He was here, he does the tractor thing. He loves tractors, he sells a certain type. And don’t worry, if there’s any noise, just let them … they won’t hear us. And he’s got my complete and total support and endorsement. He will never let you down.
 That was quick. That was quick. She goes home to mom, and mom loves us. You know her mother’s a big supporter. She said, was that you in that big stadium? I’m not liking it. She’s going to have a lot of trouble at home with mom and dad. Together we’re building the world’s most prosperous economy, and what we’ve done in the last three year they said was absolutely impossible to do. We’ve created nearly 180,000 new jobs right here in Colorado, nobody would have thought that, including 25,000 new manufacturing and construction jobs. Remember they said, you can’t do manufacturing jobs anymore. Really? Tell me about it. Unemployment has reached the lowest rate in over one half a century. The average unemployment rate, this is a beauty, for my administration is the lowest for any United States President in the history of our country. That’s not a bad [inaudible 00:58:54].
 The unemployment rate among African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, and Asian-Americans has reached the lowest levels ever recorded. And for women, 71 years, and soon you’re going to be hitting the historic number. 71 years, the best numbers in 71 years. African-American and Hispanic-American poverty has plummeted to the lowest rates ever recorded. The unemployment rate for women is going … and I’m telling you, within a very short period of time, you’re going to see some statistics coming out on … statistics. I’ve got to do it right, otherwise they’ll say, what’s wrong? If you go 16 of these, and if you mispronounce one word, they say, what’s wrong? Statistics for women that are going to be unbelievable. They’re going to be unbelievable. The best ever.
 The veterans’ unemployment rate dropped to a record low. Workers without a high school diploma have achieved the lowest unemployment ever recorded in U.S. history. Half a million more Hispanic-Americans now own a home. We’ve lifted 10 million people off of welfare, and median household income is now at the highest level in the history of our country. Think of that. Think of this.
 To lift up forgotten communities that need investment the most we created with Tim Scott great guy, great Senator from South Carolina, opportunity zones. Jobs and investment are now pouring in to over 125 newly-designated opportunity zones right here in Colorado. You know about that, right? It’s been amazing. Opportunity zones are amazing, what’s happened.
 We’re supporting working families by fighting for paid family leave and getting it, reducing the cost of child care, and giving 40 million American families an average of $2,200 in their pockets directly thanks to the Republican child tax credit. People don’t know that.
 Our historic regulatory reduction campaign is ending the tyranny of Washington bureaucrats. We repealed the ridiculous waters of the United States rule, which was basically taking away your property. And we are taking the Bureau of Land Management out of Washington, DC. We’re just on it, and thank you very much Secretary Bernhardt. Just up here, nice, slim, beautiful looking man. He looks beautiful. When you work with him he’s beautiful because he gets it done, and you’re moving it and it’s headquarters to Grand Junction, Colorado because we believe that the people who manage the lands of the great American west should live right here in the great American west. And we have ended the war on American energy. It was a war, and we’re up here and we’re doing it. We are right now energy independent, can you believe it? They want to use wind, wind, wind. Blow wind, please. Please blow. Please keep the birds away from those windmills, please. Tell those beautiful bald eagles, oh, a bald eagle. You know, if you shoot a bald eagle, they put you in jail for a long time, but the windmills knock them out like crazy. It’s true. And I think they have a rule, after a certain number are killed you have to close down the windmill until the following year. Do you believe this? Do you believe this? And they’re all made in China and in Germany. Siemans.
 And for those of you that want to hear it, when they’re making them, more stuff goes up into the air and up into the ozone, the atmosphere. More stuff is going up there, they’re making it, ay, ay, ay. And they don’t say this, but after a period of time they get tired, they get old, they get rusty, and a lot of the guys say, hey, their useful life is gone. Let’s get the hell out of here, and they’re all over the place. You look at Palm Springs, California. Take a look. Palm Springs, they’re all over the place. They’re closed, they’re rotting, they look like hell.
 Every major Democrat running for President wants to entirely eliminate American production of oil and natural gas, crushing Colorado’s economy, destroying tens of thousands of Colorado energy jobs and demolishing property values all across the state. They’re doing that. Look, you’re going to vote for one of these people, probably crazy Bernie. He seems to be leading.
 Mini Mike, I thought he might come up, but he can’t because he can’t debate. He wasn’t meant for the camera, do we agree?
 He wasn’t exactly great last night.
 No, I think he lost too last night. Only in Colorado could somebody say that. No, you’re going to probably … it looks like Bernie, doesn’t it? It looks like crazy Bernie. Crazy Bernie’s not big into natural gas and oil, and the things that keep our great factories and plants going. But Colorado voters will never let it happen.
 We’re reversing decades of calamitous trade policies. America lost one in four manufacturing jobs following the twin disasters of NAFTA and China’s entrance into the WTO. But under this administration, all of that is changing. The era of economic surrender is over, thank you. It’s over. Last month, we ended the NAFTA catastrophe and I signed the brand new U.S-Mexico-Canada agreement into law. Incredible deal. The USMCA is a gigantic victory for farmers, ranchers, and manufacturers all across the great state of Colorado and every other state.
 Also, something we got that people don’t talk about, if you love your children, you don’t have to pay estate taxes on your beautiful small farms and businesses. If you love your children, it’s great, and if you don’t love your children, don’t worry about it. Who in the hell knows. If you don’t love them, don’t leave that beautiful farm to your children. Give it to somebody else, okay? If they don’t treat you well, give don’t leave them a damn thing. Are you listening, Donnie? Are you listening, Donnie? I also took … no, it is true. That’s a big deal. Farmers were leaving their ranch and their farms and their … people were leaving their small businesses to their family and they were being assessed in valued much higher in many cases than it was worth. You couldn’t do it. They’d go out … your kids would go out and borrow a lot of money. They’d end up losing their business, losing your farm that was in your family for 150 years. You know what happens. And they’re good kids, and maybe they’ll never be you. They can’t farm like you and maybe they can’t any maybe they can, maybe they’re better. But you know what? They’d go out and they’d borrow a lot of money and they’d lose the farm. The numbers are staggering. We got rid of it. No more death tax, no more inheritance tax.
 And I also took the strongest ever action to confront China’s massive theft of American jobs. What they’ve done to us over the years, we were losing 200 billion, 300, 400, 500, not million, billion. Billion. Not million. 500 million would be a lot. We’re talking about 500 billion, they were taking it. Our strategy worked. We put tariffs up, 25 percent on the first 250 billion. Billions of dollars poured into the United States. They devalued their currency and they pumped money in. We didn’t pay for it despite the fact that these guys … they like to say they did, we didn’t pay for it, and I’ll tell you what. China-
 They like to say they did. We didn’t pay for it. I’ll tell you what, China came to the table, and we made a deal that’s great for us and hopefully it’s great for them. Last month, as you know, we signed a groundbreaking trade agreement with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property, and boost American exports $250 billion worth of purchases, $50 billion worth of farm agricultural purchase, $50 billion.
 You know the most they ever purchased were $16 billion. You know that story. I’ve told it a couple of times. $16 billion was the most ever. Secretary Sonny Purdue agriculture, he’s done a great job. I said, “Who’s the most? What’s the biggest year?” “$16 billion, sir.” I said, “All right, make it 20.” So they agreed on 20 so now we’re getting ready to close the deal, biggest trade deal ever made, biggest deal ever made. We’re getting ready to close the deal between that and USMCA. We’re getting ready to close it. I go over, I say, “What do you have down for the farmers? They’ve been great,” although I have been helping you out. I gave you a lot of money. I gave you a lot of money. $16 billion on year, $12 billion from the year before. I took it out of the tariffs or we had a lot leftover, but think of it.
 But I said, “So tell me fellas, let me ask you, what do we have? What’s the number?” ” 20 billion, sir.” They’re going to purchase 20 billion worth of farm products. I said, “Make it 50. Tell them to make it 50.” So, we went to China and they were great. You know they got 1.5 billion people. You got a lot of feeding to do. I said, “Do me a favor, instead of 20 billion purchased from our farmers, would you make it 50?” “No, no, no, no, no,” and they agreed to do it. They agreed to it.
 I don’t think you’re going to be able to make it. You better be able to make it. I don’t want the farmers coming to me, sir, sir, I’m sorry we can’t produce that much, sir. I said, “Our farmers will find a way. They’ll go out and buy larger tractors and they’ll buy some extra land.” Go out and buy a bigger tractor or something. No, but it is true. I’ve had people say, “Sir, they can’t produce that much.” I said, “Forget it.” They will. Look at them. You’re a farmer. They’ll figure that one out. Although Mike Bloomberg said you’ll never figure it out. They’ll figure it out long before him. You’ll figure that one out long before him. No, I know the farmers. I’m not worried about it. $50 billion on no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than on immigration.
 Every day Democrats open border policies are harming and killing innocent lives. This region alone, last year ICE officers arrested over 2000, and by the way, our ICE officers, these guys are tough and they’re brave. Over 2000 criminal aliens, that’s MS-13 gangs, thousands, and they bring them back to where they came from. By the way, now their countries take them back. They weren’t taking them back, safe third agreements. They take them back. Charged or convicted of dangerous offenses including robbery, rape, and murder. We bring them back and in some cases we don’t even want to bring them back. We have to put them. I don’t want to house them for the next 50 years, but you know what? We don’t want to take chances either, but we’ll bring them back to Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Mexico. We bring them back. They didn’t use to take them. They said, “We don’t want them back. Oh, okay, we’ll keep them ourselves.” We don’t do that anymore.
 In Denver, an illegal alien was recently charged with brutally stabbing a judge multiple times, attempting to murder him his own home. The alien had been arrested 36 times over the past 20 years. Other than that, he was a very fine fellow, for crimes including assault and child abuse, yet somehow they kept letting him go and he was still in our country. In communities across the nation, radical, and we’re watching them very closely, left wing politicians are imposing deadly sanctuary cities, and sanctuary states, and policies that compel local law enforcement to release these illegal aliens straight into your beautiful communities. Last year, Colorado Democrats enacted a law declaring this entire state to be a sanctuary for dangerous criminals.
 As a result of state and local sanctuary policies, officials in Boulder defied federal law enforcement and released a previously deported child molester into the community. In Denver, officials released a criminal alien arrested on felony drug charges, and now he is a very dangerous man. We just caught him for attempted murder. Right here in Colorado Springs, El Paso County officials defied the requests of federal law enforcement and released a criminal alien arrested for robbery, assault, and kidnapping. They released him straight into your community. These are the Democrats. These are your Democrats. Democrats think that Colorado should be a haven for murderers, predators, kidnappers, and felons in our country and that come in illegally. Republicans believe that Colorado should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. If you want to shut down sanctuary cities and stop sanctuary states, if you want to protect your family and your loved ones, you must vote for Cory, vote for Trump, vote for the Republican party. We’re getting it done.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we’ve reduced illegal border crossings for eight straight months in a row. Illegal crossings are down 75% since last spring, and we have ended the horrible practice of catch and release. You know what you do? You catch him. You say, “Where do you live?” They don’t live here. They don’t have an address. “Where do you live? Give us your address.” They don’t have an address. Many are criminals. Many are very dangerous criminals. So they’re saying, and we are building the wall. It’s gone up 122 miles as of yesterday.
 It’s a serious wall. Did you hear? Two weeks ago, a small section, twice the size of this stage, we were putting it up and they’re pouring the concrete, and a lot of, it’s Mexico, it’s very rough territory, some of it. It’s partially desert. We were in a rough area, very windy, and we had a tremendous sand and wind storm. So we hadn’t put it in. We put it in and it was just getting set, and we got hit with a tornado of wind and it blew it down, and the fake news said Trump’s wall fell down. It was blown down. But see, at least we have a voice where we can explain. It’s true. We lifted it up and we held it up. When the storm went by, we had it set and it’s set beautifully, and the following day, that sucker is going to be up for many, many years. Can you imagine?
 I said what happened in a certain area, and we’re doing a great job by the way, in New Mexico. New Mexico is going to be a great, great state for the Republican party, and Arizona, what we’re doing on the border in Arizona, they want us to do it badly. But can you imagine that? A thing falls over because the concrete was just poured, it’s soaking wet and it falls over, and they make it sound like the wall fell down. These are very, very dishonest people, but you know that.
 Border patrol has seized the largest amount of deadly narcotics over the last year ever recorded. It’s horrible what’s happening, the largest amount ever recorded. We’ve deported record numbers of gang members, especially the MS-13 gang members, but there are others that are just as bad. We’ve done more to secure the border than any administration in the history of our country. The border is going to be very soon secured. We’ll have, some time next year, over 500 miles of beautiful, powerful wall built.
 Washington Democrats have never been more extreme taking cues from crazy Bernie Sanders, 132 congressional Democrats have signed up for Bernie’s healthcare takeover that would strip 180 million Americans of their great private coverage that you want. While the Socialist Democrats are trying to destroy American healthcare, and trying to destroy your social security, that won’t happen with me, my administration is protecting your social security, your Medicare, and is fighting to give you great, great healthcare, already done a good job. We’re defending your right to keep the doctor, and to keep the plan of your choice. Remember, President Obama 28 times, he said, “Keep your doctor. Keep your plan. Keep your doctor. Keep your plan. Keep your doctor. Keep your plan.” Right? It was a lie. We should impeach him. We should impeach him. Impeach Obama. Get him out of office.
 No, nobody thought of that. We caught him in a lie 28 times at least. He’s on record. We caught him in a lie, but nobody said let’s impeach him. Only these maniacs, crazy Nancy Pelosi, crying Chuck Schumer. What about the little pencil neck, right? Pencil neck. He’s got the world’s smallest neck. Here’s a guy that lied about my statement. He made up a statement and he delivered it before a contract. He made up a statement. It was totally fiction. He made it up and then they tell me, you’re getting ready to sue him, and they say, “Oh no, he’s protected because he made the statement in the halls of Congress.” That should be worse. No, that should worse. Little wise guy.
 We’re making healthcare better and much cheaper while premiums more than doubled in the five years before I took office. We’re now offering plans that are up to 60% less expensive and they’re better. They’re better. We’re protecting people with pre-existing conditions and we always will. We’re fighting to stop surprise medical billing. I signed an executive order imposing price transparency. That’s going to be bigger than healthcare in a certain way. Watch the prices come down because when providers are required to show their prices, those same prices fall very, very fast. We have approved a record number of affordable new generic drugs, which are just as good as the name brand drugs, but at a tiny fraction of the cost.
 We have totally transform veteran’s health care, including getting the long sought VA choice and VA accountability. So, now if our veterans have to wait in line, they go out to a doctor, a local doctor, we pay the bill and they’re all set. They don’t have to wait for six weeks. He’s agreeing, right? Good. Right? You don’t see those stories. You used to see all these horrible vet stores, veterans, the veterans on television, and you don’t see it because veterans choice, it’s amazing. Our great veterans, here’s a man right here. You’re saying, yes. Purple Heart. Thank you. Thank you. That’s great.
 But it’s a lot different under Trump, isn’t it? A lot different under Trump, and now you go out to a private doctor, but you know, we also got accountability. They’ve been trying to get these things done for 45, 46, 48 years, couldn’t get them done. I’m good at getting things approved. I have to say. But, we also got accountability where we can fire people that aren’t taking care of our vets. If somebody isn’t doing a good job, you couldn’t fire him. Now you look at him, you say, “Get the hell out of here. You’re fired.”
 We passed another thing. For 44 years, they’ve been trying to get it passed, the spectacular Right to Try, where we can use our medicines that are in trial if somebody is terminally ill or very sick, we can use it and we are having tremendous results, Right to Try. I hope that nobody in this room needs it. I hope you don’t need it, but if you do, we have the best in the world, and we’re seeing amazing results. We’re combating the opioid epidemic. Drug overdose deaths have declined for the first time in nearly 31 years. We are pursuing new advances in neonatal research to care for America’s youngest patients and breaking all records in so doing.
 All of the radical Democrats in the Presidential debates have declared their unlimited support for extreme late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb, right up until the very moment of birth. You know that. That is why at my State of the Union, I asked Congress to prohibit late term abortion for babies, because republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.
 The Democrat party is the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, blatant corruption, and the total obliteration of your second amendment. That’s what it is. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and the late great Abraham Lincoln. People forget that. People forget Honest Abe. He’s the most presidential guy. I’ve always said I could be more presidential than anybody, but I’m not sure I can beat Honest Abe when he wears the hat. That hat is too much. It’s so easy to be presidential, so easy. It’s so much easier than doing what I have to do, but you know what I’d have? I’d have about three people in the front row.
 How about sleepy Joe? How about his performance? What? What? It’s great to be with the great people of Ohio. Joe, Joe, you’re in Iowa. You’re an Iowa. Oh, wow. He did it five times. So far, I’ve never done it. Thank you. I’ve never done it. If I do it, that’s a bad sign. Now he does it all the time. He was in New Hampshire and he said he was in Vermont. It’s great to be in Vermont. Joe, you’re in New Hampshire. Dammit. He’d go up and tell him again and again. Joe, what the hell is wrong with you, Joe? Sleepy Joe. He’s sleepy Joe. He was sleepy a long time ago, but now he’s really sleeping. But it’s easy to be presidential. You know that. The easiest thing you could do is presidential. Never open your jacket. Never. It’s got to be buttoned up. Right? Ladies and gentleman, the President of the United States. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. It’s so great to be with the people of Colorado. Thank you, everybody. Good night. Good night.
 No, no. It’s so easy. It’s so easy, honestly. Look, I did very well with the State of the Union, right? They said it was one of the best. Smart, smart. Smart guy. We do good. We’re representing you. I better do good. If I didn’t do good, you’d dump me so fast. Actually, I don’t think you would dump be so fast, actually. You want to know the thing? She said, “we’re never dumping you.”
 Fake news CNN went up to a woman. “What does it take for you to leave the President?” “I’m not leaving him.” There were 10 women, and the one woman, beautiful, incredible women, and they had their bandanas, they had hats, Trump, and stupid CNN, they go up, “What does it take for you?” Then he goes, “Look, he said one time that his people are so good, they’d stay with him if he shot somebody in the middle of Fifth Avenue.” Do you remember? Right? ” Would you stay if he shot somebody?” This is actually an answer, or something to the effect, “Would you say every shot somebody in the middle of Fifth Avenue?” The woman looks, “Well, it depends why he shot him.” Makes sense.
 Depends why he shot him. But then they said, “We’re not leaving him. We’re never leaving him.” We’re in thing together, folks. We got the swamp. We got that dirty, rotten swamp. We got crooked politicians. We got a lot of bad people, but we’re getting them out one by one. We better be, little Adam Schiff, that little Adam Schiff. What a crooked politician. He’s a corrupt politician.
 Talking about guys, he’ll lie and then the next day get caught. He’ll be sorry that he got caught. The next day he’ll walk up to the mic and say exactly the same thing. He’s got no shame. He’s got no shame. He’s a liar. I think he’s a sick person.
 Republicans are fighting for the citizens from every background, every community, and every walk of life. You know that we’re the party of boundless optimism, excitement, energy and enthusiasm. We are asking all Americans to join our incredible movement. We are the big tent. We are the big party. We have the big ideas for the future. Republicans are fighting for school choice, big deal, it’s a big deal, because no parents should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school.
 To uphold the new rule of law, we have confirmed 217 brand new, beautiful federal judges who will interpret the Constitution as written. That’s a record. That is a record that it includes 192 judges who are appointed for a lifetime. So, think of it. If they’re 40 years old, if they’re 45 years old, they can be there for 40, 50 years. As you know, and by the way, that’s a record by a lot. I have the record, but there’s one record that probably nobody will get the percentage record. Who has the percentage? Do you know? George Washington, 100%. But it was only 16 people. So, with 217, can you imagine that? It’s a record and we’re going up. We’re going up.
 The Democrats are thrilled about that one, and as you know, I have nominated and we have confirmed two great new Supreme court justices, Colorado zone, right? Colorado. That’s right. Colorado zone, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. Neil Gorsuch, that’s right. Colorado. He’s a great guy, too, great guy. Colorado. That’s a big thing. That’s another great check you have down for count. Neil Gorsuch.
 I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. They said they were going to do it for years. We recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. Our investments in the United States military include more than $300 million this year. Has anyone ever heard of a place called Fort Carson? Another place, Peterson Air Force Base, you know that. Another place, the Air Force Academy, you know that, and Schriever, right, Air Force Base Schriever. Schriever. Was that right? Schriever, right? Schriever, that’s a little tricky one. It took me a little while. I’m looking at that sucker. I’m saying, “Schriever, right.” Thank you. That’s very nice. He saw he was having a little trouble with that one. That’s tricky. You don’t like to mispronounce a word. You come to a great place like this and instead of calling it Fort Carson, you go at Fort crasson, and they say, “Oh, this guy doesn’t know anything about us.” No, a lot of money going into Fort Carson. It’s great.
 For years, you watched as your politicians apologize for America. You saw that. Well, I’d like to apologize. We don’t apologize. Now you have a President who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the great people of Colorado. At stake in our present battle is the survival of our nation. If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for, they wanted to secure these great rights that we all have, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November of 2020, November 3rd. Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all. We’ll get it finished. We’ll get it finished. They’re bad people. They’re all over the place. They’re bad people.
 With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. You know that. Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane and lawful system of immigration. We will continue to enact great new trade deals like we’ve been doing. I’m going to India next week and we’re talking trade. They’ve been hitting us very hard for many, many years, but I really like Prime Minister Modi. We got to talk a little. We’ve got to talk a little business. They’ve been hitting us hard. They give us tariffs. One of the highest in the world is India. But I hear they’re going to have 10 million people, they say anywhere from six to 10 million people are going to be showing up along the route to one of the largest stadiums in the world, the largest cricket stadium in the world, which is brand new and beautiful.
 But you know what, and the only problem with doing that, Prime Minister Modi said, “We will have 10 million people greet you.” Here’s my problem. We have a packed house. We have a lot of people, thousands of people that couldn’t get in. It’s going to look like peanuts from now on. I’ll never be satisfied with the crowd. If we have 10 million people in India, how can I be satisfied if we fill up a 60,000 seat stadium? Big deal. See, I’m getting spoiled. He said, “Build a bigger stadium.” That’s good. Colorado, very good. But it’s going to result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase Made in the USA. That beautiful phrase.
 We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer. They’ve made such progress, and ending the AIDS epidemic in America. We started a year ago. It should have been started long before in the last administration because they had the technology then. They didn’t start it, but we’re starting it. We’ll have it done within nine years. It’s a 10 year process. Think of that. AIDS. we will land the first woman on the moon and become the first station in the world to plant our flag on Mars.
 You have a lot of that action happening right here. We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. That’s a big one. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one, beautiful America. We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government bureaucracy, are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. We live by the words of our national motto, In God We Trust, from Pueblo to Fort Collins, from Denver to Durango, from Black Forest to Broomfield, from Castle Rock to right here in Colorado Springs, we stand on the shoulders of red blooded American Patriots who poured out their heart, and sweat, and soul, to secure our liberty and defend our freedom. Colorado was founded by pioneers and prospectors, cowboys and miners, and ranchers who tamed the wilderness, explored the west, scaled the Rockies, fought the battles, and helped make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the Earth, and we are making it greater every single day greater than ever before.
 Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God. America’s thriving like never before, and ladies and gentlemen of Colorado, the best is yet to come. Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you people of Colorado.
 Check out the crowd that was there to cheer him on in Colorado Springs. We are taking a live look inside the arena again, right here as Trump just wrapped up his keep America great rally in Colorado Springs. We still have one more to go. He’s going to be headed over to Nevada, going to be doing a Las Vegas rally tomorrow afternoon. Of course, News Now is going to have that for you. It will kick off, I believe at 1:00 PM Arizona time, so that’s 3:00 PM eastern time, and as I mentioned, we will have you fully covered right here on News Now, so once again-
 Well, thank you to Vice President Pence. Thank you, Mike. And hello Pennsylvania. Hello. It’s great to be back in this state that gave us the Liberty Bell, Pennsylvania Steel, Hershey chocolate. I like Hershey chocolate. The Nittany Lions. The Nittany Lions, they’re doing pretty well too and the incredible American Patriots just like you, you are Patriots. Thank you very much. Thank you. Under Republican leadership, America is stronger than ever before and we are respected again.
 Last month you saw it, we smashed expectations with another 266,000 jobs and unemployment is now more than a 50-year low. We have never seen what’s going on with different groups. Unemployment is at a position we’ve never had anything like this. You are so lucky I became your president. I’m only kidding. I have to say I’m kidding because the fake news back there will take that. They’ll take that statement and they’ll blow it up and they’ll say, “He said they were lucky to have him as president. What a horrible thing to say.” Because they’re fake. Anyway, here in Pennsylvania you had the single best year that you’ve ever had in the history of our country, not bad. The Pennsylvania unemployment rate has reached an all time record low. And I hate to tell you this, when I was campaigning three and a half years ago, I’d come here, you weren’t doing so well, folks. You weren’t doing so well. Wages were way down, unemployment was way up. It wasn’t a pretty picture. Just a few months ago, I visited the new Shell Petrochemical Plant in Beaver County at $6 billion with a B, $6 billion. It is the largest investment in Pennsylvania history.
 We’re ending decades of failed trade policies that devastated communities all across the state. For generations, American manufacturing was the bedrock of your economy, the bedrock. Remember the last administration, ” You need a magic wand. It’ll never come back.” We found the magic wand, didn’t we?
 Then came NAFTA, the NAFTA disaster, I call it, one of the worst trade deals in the history of any country and the loss of one in three Pennsylvania manufacturing jobs. Your politicians always pledged to fix it. They’d talk about it for years and years and decades, but they never were able to do it. They came and they went to Washington and they did nothing. But unlike those politicians, I keep my promises.
 And I love Pennsylvania. I went to school in Pennsylvania, you know that right? I know it well. And I’m thrilled to report that we are on the verge of ending the NAFTA catastrophe once and for all. Congress will soon vote on my new trade deal, the US-Mexico-Canada agreement or USMCA. After years of waiting, many, many years, many, many decades, they’ve been looking for this, and then we got it done and we’ve been waiting for a long time for Nancy Pelosi to announce USMCA and she did it on the same day that they announced that they are going to impeach the 45th president of the United States and your favorite president, I think.
 And the reason they announced it on the same day, one hour later, they announce impeachment, a few guys standing behind her. They announced the impeachment, and then an hour later, she announced that she’s going to USMCA. You know why? It’s a huge deal and it plays down the impeachment because they are embarrassed by the impeachment, and our poll numbers have gone through the roof because of her stupid impeachment.
 And think of it this way also, the silver lining of impeachment and this witch hunt, that’s the reason they approved USMCA. So that’s okay with me, because they approved it and they’re very happy to have it. But honestly, it’s an incredible deal for our country. Took too long, it waited in Congress for too long a time. Incredible deal, and replacing the worst, NAFTA.
 We’ve also just reached a deal with Congress to invest a record $738 billion more into our great military. When I took over, I will tell you, I became president… Think of it, almost three years ago. By the way, was that the most exciting night ever? I’m just watching these people, that was one of the greatest evenings in the history of television from a rating standpoint, from an excitement standpoint, what the hell would they do without me and you? They’d be gone.
 About a month before I ran, I picked up a New York Times, it was like a leaflet that you had out at a grocery store and now it’s thick. They’ve got all their reporters covering Trump, Trump, Trump. I can’t imagine they won’t endorse because without me winning, you know what happens? They all go down the tombs they got, all of them, Washington Post, New York Times, those very dishonest networks. They are very dishonest, very, very dishones.
 No, they’re very dishonest people. And I have to say this, look, and I always have to say this, you have some really great journalists and you have some honest publications, but not too many of them, I have to be honest with you. Well, you know that. Does anybody think the media is honest?
 Does anybody think they’re totally corrupted and dishonest?
 All right. The legislation will also officially establish something that’s so important to me because it’s where it’s at. And a lot of people used to smile and now outside of the wall, which we’re building… The wall is going on. It gets one of the biggest applause of anything, it’s the sixth branch of the United States Armed Forces, the Space Force. We’re opening up the Space Force because you know what, that’s where it’s at. And everything’s built right here in the United States. That’s simple.
 And by the way, we build the greatest weapons, the greatest planes, the greatest ships, we build it in the United States, there’s nobody that comes close. We have the greatest military equipment anywhere in the world, rockets and missiles, no place builds it like us. We have the best in the world and we sell it to allies and they all want to buy from the United States. We’ve never had a thing like this. We are so hot. We are so hot.
 And just a few weeks ago, the United States Special Forces brought the world’s number one terrorist to justice. Thanks to the strength and courage of our warriors, and they’re great warriors, the bloodthirsty savage known as Al Baghdadi is now dead.
 And he was quickly replaced by his second-in-command and his second-in-command is now dead. And we’ve got our eye on and our sights on third also, we know exactly where and when, but it’s becoming a very unpopular job, not a lot of takers and that’s what we want. Go back to living a good normal life because America is winning again. America is winning again like never before. And as I always say, and I’ve already said it twice tonight, this country is so respected and we were not respected four years ago, we were laughed at.
 But while we’re delivering historic victories for the American people, the radical left Democrats and the failed Washington establishment are trying to erase your votes, nullify the election and overthrow our democracy. Not going to happen, don’t worry about it. I wouldn’t lose too much sleep over it. And I have to say this about the Republicans, the Republicans… And you have a lot of great ones here tonight, your Congressman. You have a lot of great ones, these congressmen are great. The Republicans have never been so United as they are right now, ever. The House, the Senate, we’ve never been this United because it’s all a hoax and they understand it.
 They also understand poll numbers, but I’m sure that had nothing to do with it. But the impeachment hoax is about overturning your great 2016 vote, or in the alternative, trying to win the 2020 election. That’s not going to happen. Yesterday, the Justice Department’s Inspector General released a report detailing the outrageous, scandalous and unprecedented abuses of power.
 Get them out. Get her out. Get her out. Get her out. See, these guys want to be so politically correct, you get her out. You see that? I’ll tell you, law enforcement is so great. That particular guy wanted to be so politically correct. We don’t want to be politically correct. I don’t know who he was, he didn’t do the greatest job, so they tried to frame innocent people in the ludicrous… It all started with the Russia witch hunt. Then the inspector general shocking report proved that the Obama FBI obtained secret warrants to spy on my campaign based on a phony foreign dossier of debunk smears, paid for by crooked Hillary Clinton and the DNC.
 The FBI failed to disclose the nature of the political hit job to the Pfizer court. They hid it, they deceived it, and they lied. The dossier was written by a discredited foreign agent who quote, “Desperate that Donald Trump not get elected and was passionate about him not being the United States president.” What’s this? Folks, they spied on our campaign, they spied. Never happened before in the history of our country and we’re really wise to it. We’re wise to it.
 The inspector general found that the FBI spying application contained 17 errors and omissions, commonly known as lies and deceit. When the FBI… And you have great people in the FBI, but not in leadership. You have not good people in leadership, you haven’t had. When the FBI uncovered evidence showing that we did absolutely nothing wrong, which was right at the beginning, they hid that exonerating, you know that? They hid it. They hid it so nobody could see it, so they could keep this hoax going on for two years. They knew right at the beginning that it was all a frame up, a set up, but they hid it so that nobody could see it, so they could keep it going on, thinking they were going to hurt us politically. But now we’re stronger politically than we were ever before. And the FBI also sent multiple undercover human spies to surveil and record people associated with our campaign. Look how they’ve hurt people. They’ve destroyed the lives of people that were great people, that are still great people. Their lives have been destroyed by scum, by scum. An FBI lawyer forged, took an email… forged, forged an email used as evidence, an act which is now the subject of a criminal referral.
 What they did is so unbelievable. Oh, I look forward… I don’t know. I don’t know, keep away. I look forward to Bull Durham’s report, that’s the one I look forward to. And this report was great by the IG, especially since he was appointed by President Barack Hussein Obama. Considering that fact, it was great because we learned a lot of things that nobody would have found out variously, although I suspect we would have. We also know from a previous inspector general investigation that many of these same high ranking officials were consumed with anti- Trump and anti-Trump people hatred and bias, texting about an insurance policy, let’s have an insurance… remember? Remember?
 Peter Strzok and his lover, Lisa Page. Remember? “Lisa, I love you so much. Lisa, please, Lisa please. Lisa, I’ve never loved anyone like you. We won’t allow this to happen to our country. Lisa, please tell me you love me. Lisa, I love you.” “Peter, I love you. I love you like I’ve never loved anyone. And if for any reason she loses, even though she’s a stone called corrupt person, if for any reason she loses, Peter, we’ve got to have an insurance policy, we have to do it because we’re going to go… ” And that’s what’s been happening for the last two and a half years. It was their phony insurance policy.
 So FBI lawyer, Lisa Page, so in love that she didn’t know what the hell was happening texted the head of Counter Intelligence, Peter Strzok, likewise so in love he couldn’t see straight. This poor guy, did I hear he needed a restraining order after this whole thing to keep him away from Lisa? That’s what I heard. I don’t know if it’s true. The fake news will never report it, but it could be true.
 No, that’s what I heard. I don’t know. I mean who could believe a thing like that? No, I heard that Peter Strzok needed a restraining order to keep him away from his once lover. Ah, Lisa, I hope you’re miss him. Lisa, he’ll never be the same. But he said he’s not ever going to become president and Strzok look back, “No, no, he won’t. We’ll stop it. We’ll stop it.” Can you believe we found these texts? This is FBI agents at a high level. “No, no. We’ll stop it.” They’re going to stop us from winning an election and then we have to listen, “There was no bias. Oh, there was no bias.”
 Think of these people, they write here was no bias. And yet he saying, “No, no, darling, we’ll stop it.” And then they announce there was no bias. Now you know what we’re doing, and it’s not easy, and somebody said a regular president… I don’t want to use the word normal because that’s not a nice normal refer… A regular president would have been under a table, thumb in the mouth saying, “Take me home mommy, this is too tough for me.” It’s true. True, they know.
 And while it was tough on my family, I have to say, very unfair to my family, very tough on my family. I have a great family, tough… For me, it’s my life. I do it, I do it. It’s one thing, but very tough on a family thing, a thing like this happens, it’s a disgrace. But day after day we’re exposing something called that filthy, disgusting, horrible swamp and we’re cleaning it up. And now after and a half years now that the Russia witch hunt is dead, a big fat disgusting fraud, the Congressional Democrats are pushing the impeachment witch hunt having to do with Ukraine, but that’s already failing.
 You saw their so-called articles of impeachment today, people are saying they’re not even a crime. What happened? All of these horrible things, remember? Bribery and this and that. Where are they? They send these two things and not even a crime. This is the lightest, weakest impeachment…. Our country has had actually many impeachments, you recall judges and lots of… many impeachments, but it was on today, everybody said, “This is impeachment light.” This is the lightest impeachment in the history of our country by far. It’s not even like an impeachment. These people are stone cold crooked.
 When a guy like shifty Schiff, he’s a corrupt politician, he made up my statement because… See, I did one thing very good, as soon as I heard about this deal, I released my statement immediately, but he had already made horrible statements. And by the way, the whistleblower, the whistleblower defrauded our country because the whistleblower wrote something that was totally untrue and we broke up the game.
 Remember the second whistleblower was coming, right? And then the informer, who is the informer? I know who the informer is. So the informer obviously gave him a false information because they wrote in the whistleblower report, they wrote something totally different from what I said, what I said was perfect. But it screwed up the whole works because most guys would never do that. They didn’t even know probably that we had it transcribed, professionally transcribed, word for word transcribed, so beautiful. Am I lucky I had it transcribed? Think of that. Think of that.
 So when I said release it… And I don’t like doing that because you’re releasing it, it’s a conversation with a foreign leader, in this case, a very fine gentlemen, president of Ukraine, the new president of Ukraine. And we call them up and we said, “Would it be okay?” Our secretary of state made the call, “Would it be okay?” And they didn’t know what we were talking about, but they said, “Yeah, it’s okay.” And by the way, he, his foreign minister, everybody did you know they said, “There was no pressure. He didn’t do anything wrong. There was no pressure put on us.” That didn’t stop anybody but we released the conversation and that gummed it up. Now, all of a sudden we never heard from the second whistleblower. We never heard about who the informer was.
 The whistleblower who’s going to come out strong, he’s disappeared. Where’s the whistleblower? He’s disappeared. He’s gone. Maybe our great Congressman can find him.
 He’s gone. Maybe our great Congressmen can find him. Okay? But the whistleblower is gone. He flew the coop because he reported incorrectly, and the IG, who didn’t want to look at the conversation, he was so anxious to turn the whistleblower report over to Congress so that Congress could have fun with it, ought to be ashamed of himself.
 But today, the House Democrats announced these two flimsy, pathetic, ridiculous articles of impeachment. The House Democrats are walking back from everything they claimed. With today’s announcement, they’re now admitting there was no collusion, there was no obstruction of justice, and there were no crimes whatsoever. There are no crimes. It says that, there are no crimes. They’re impeaching me and there are no crimes. This has to be a first in history. They’re impeaching me. You know why? Because they want to win an election. And that’s the only way they can do it.
 So the Democrats have nothing, and they’ve turned the somber process of impeachment. And it was, you know, to me, impeachment is a very ugly word. It’s a word I associate with some very bad times in our country. The good news is we’re having the best times in history in our country. Okay? But the word impeachment, to me, is a very, very ugly word. It’s a dark, ugly word. But, but I have to tell you, as bad as it is, it meant something. When you had serious high crimes and misdemeanors, when you had serious, go ahead, it’s impeachment. That would happen every 50 years, every 40 years, every 100 years. This was a big deal. They’re making it so like, “Let’s do it every six months.” They’ve cheapened a process. They’ve cheapened a process.
 These people are so bad, the radical left Democrats, and I actually think that Pelosi, who by the way, by the way, by the way, she has totally lost control. She has totally … It’s being run now by this crazy AOC plus three. AOC plus three. Now it’s being run by other people. The far left has just grabbed that party. It is so sad to see. And she knew what would happen.
 I didn’t, because I didn’t figure the polls would go through the roof. They went out today. In Michigan, in Wisconsin, in a place called Pennsylvania. No, no. The polls are through the roof. They’re called swing states, very important states. We won Pennsylvania the last time, and we’re going to win it again, but even bigger. Our polls have gone, over the last month, they’ve gone through the roof. You look at it, take a look at it, it came out today. The FireHouse poll, it’s an important poll. It was always good. I never looked at it. Today, I like it a lot. We’re up through … nobody can even believe it.
 So what Pelosi did, and as I said, they do the impeachment, then right away, let’s do USMCA, right on top of it. You’d think she’d wait like a day. She wanted to smother the impeachment crap, and that’s probably what she did, at least to an extent. But any Democrat that votes for this sham will be voting to sacrifice their house majority, their dignity, and their career. Okay? And some of these partisan lunatics have already said that if they fail this time, think of this. How about Low IQ Maxine Waters? How about Green? How about Green? We’ve Green. How about Green, where he said, “We have to impeach him because if we don’t impeach him we’re not going to win the election.”
 This is what we’re dealing with. You know, we’re dealing with some very bad people. We’re dealing with people that don’t respect you. And by the way, you know they talk about the elite? You’re the elite. They’re not the elite. You’re the elite. You’re the elite. You got better education. You got better everything. You’re the elite. It always bothers me, they said, “The elite.” This is the elite. Look at these people. How beautiful. This is the elite. You know who are the elite? You look at those jobs reports. We’re the best in history unemployment for African Americans, best in history unemployment Hispanic Americans, best in history unemployment Asian Americans. You’re the elite. You’re the elite.
 But they said they’ll do it again because this has been a total bust. They’ll do it again. And by the way, the Senate’s been so professional, so good, so strong, so solid. Just like these gentlemen in the House. So solid. So we have to vote these crazy people the hell out of office. And in 2020 I’m going to work like hell that we take over the House. We have to take over the House. We have to. Right? Got to take over the House, Mike. So here are the facts that Shifty Schiff … Is that guy the worst? He comes up to a microphone, now he comes up to a microphone like two and a half years ago, “I have absolute proof that the President of the United States conspired with Russia.” Russia? What the hell do I have to do with Russia? By the way, Russia wishes that Hillary Clinton won. They wish. We are now number one in the world in energy. Russia is number three. We’re beating out Russia and Saudi Arabia. You’d have windmills all over the place if you had Crooked Hillary. They’d be knocking out those birds left and right. Those windmills. Wah, wah, wah.
 “Darling, I want to watch television tonight and there’s no damn wind. What do I do? I want to watch the election results. Darling, there’s no wind. The damn wind just isn’t blowing like it used to because of global warming, I think. I think it’s global warming. Global warming. No more wind, no more life. The ocean is going to rise 1/8 of an inch within the next 250 years. We’re going to be wiped out!”
 Look, I want clean air. I want clean water, crystal clean, I want, and that’s what we have at a record level. Our air and our water are cleaner now than it’s ever been with all that we’re doing, and we haven’t closed up all of our industry, and we haven’t closed up our businesses and lost all those jobs. And right now, we’re by far the largest economy in the world. If you remember, you could look, if you go back five, six, seven years, in 2019 they say China was going to catch us as the world’s largest economy. Guess what? They’re way behind. They’re way behind.
 Because over the last three years, you see the stock market set 131 records from the day. Think of that. And that means jobs, that means 401ks. I have so many people that come up to me, “Thank you, sir. My wife is so in love with me because I went up 79% in the 401k. She thinks I’m a genius. She always thought I was a total stiff, a dumb, stupid dope. Now she thinks I’m a financial genius, sir. And all I did was buy some stock. I have stock in a 401k, and you made me into a genius, sir. She loves me so much more than she ever did.” Shows you the power of money, right? Isn’t that terrible? But I have so many people, 401ks are through the roof, your jobs are through the roof, we have the lowest unemployment rate. And now, more importantly than anything, wages are up for the first time in many, many years, decades, decades.
 You remember four years ago I was here, and I told people, I said, “You know, 20 years ago, people made more money than they made four years ago.” Not now. Not anymore. Because people now can not only make a lot more money, if they don’t like their job, they go out and they get a different job, and they get more money, and ultimately they find one that they love. You have so many opportunities right now. Wages are up, jobs are up. And today we set a new record, almost 160 million people are working. We’ve never come close to that number. That’s a hell of a number. But just quickly, here are the facts on Shifty Schiff. Dishonest guy, makes up my statements. He said, “The President of Ukraine repeatedly declared that there was no pressure,” but he didn’t want to say that. We said, “Say it. Say it, you crooked bastard, say it. But he doesn’t want to say it. We said, “Sat it!” I’d like to force him to say it. He’ll walk up to the mic, “Ladies and gentlemen,” guy’s a total corrupt guy.
 Listen, just to finish off, a man who I really, I don’t know him, but I respect him because the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, and he said it so strongly, “I have never seen a direct link between investigations and security assistance.” He just said that the Democrats, who are corrupt, refuse to say that, and that’s ultimately the only one that matters, the leaders of Ukraine, because they’re the ones that know of this pressure, not some crooked ambassador that’s a deep stater, or that’s a Bushy, or that’s a Clintonite, or that’s a Barack Obama ambassador. Okay? The ones that matter are the leadership of the country that we’re talking about. They refuse to say it because they’re dishonest people.
 There’s only one way to stop the rabid partisan Democrats, Pennsylvania voters must show up in 2020 so we can take back the House, hold the Senate, and keep the White House. It’s the only way. Only way.
 Okay, so I’m going to ask these people to come up on this stage because we have warriors with us tonight. We love warriors, like the guys that killed al-Baghdadi. You know how much press I got? I don’t care about press. But Conan the dog got more than I did, and that’s okay. Conan was almost electrocuted, he deserves it. They gave me about a day, and that’s okay, because the people understand, we made a great decision. And remember this, al-Baghdadi was the founder of ISIS, al-Baghdadi was a vicious, ruthless person, al-Baghdadi created a caliphate bigger than the State of Ohio. Think of that, that’s a big caliphate. And we now have taken 100% of the caliphate, and we have thousands and thousands of ISIS prisoners. With Obama, you did nothing. You did nothing but get your ass kicked. True. True. All right, we’re joined tonight by many of the terrific warriors that have helped me so much in so many ways. They fight for us. They really are incredible. And they come right from the State of Pennsylvania.
 Hey, do you ever notice where Biden keeps saying he’s in the wrong state? Like if he’s in Ohio, “It’s great to be an Iowa tonight.” If he’s in Pennsylvania, “It’s wonderful to be in the State of Delaware.” What is wrong with this guy? What’s wrong with him? There’s something wrong. Okay? There’s something wrong. No, he keeps … How many times can you do that?
 So far, it could happen, because you know I was doing six and seven a day that last month, that last beautiful month that I loved, I was doing six. I left these guys alone. I didn’t want to do interviews, they were a waste of time. We just did these big beautiful rallies. And you know, if you start getting a little … you know, I went to Michigan, then I went to Wisconsin, then I went … I’m sitting here saying, “What the hell is going on? These crowds are incredible.” And we had the biggest crowds.
 By the way, to this day, there has never been, and they’ll always correct me, in the history of politics, in the history of our country, there has never been anybody that drew crowds like we draw, and I don’t have a guitar. I have no guitar. But this has never happened. I mean if you took Ronald Reagan, and we all like Ronald Reagan, I liked him, I thought he was a great guy, but if he came to Pennsylvania for a rally, if he had 1,000 people in a ballroom or something, you know? I mean we’re getting crowds, 25-30,000 people, and then there’ll be 20,000 people outside. We set up screens outside, and if anybody would like to stand in the rain watching. And do you people out there, I’m sorry, it’s pretty rough.
 But no, there’s never been anything like it. One instruction get me the biggest arena you can get. We don’t have empty seats. I mean look at this. How many seats is this? 11,000? How much? 10,500, it’s packed. It’s beyond that. And don’t forget, look at the floor, and then you go out. No, and then you go out and you look outside, and you have thousands and thousands because there’s a spirit for what we’re doing. We’re fixing our country, we’re healing our country. We’re making America great again. So I want to ask a couple of our great warriors to come forward. Representative Glenn Thompson, come up here, Glenn. Come up here. A man that’s been a friend of mine for a long time, Mike Kelly. Don’t get in the fight with Mike. Come up, Mike. A wonderful man who represents this area, Scott Perry. Representative Lloyd Smucker. Lloyd. A guy who was always there for us, John Joyce. And two people that you all know very well in this state, they bring home the bacon, Dan Meuser and Fred Keller. Thank you fellas. Thank you.
 I want to also bring back our Pennsylvania Party Chairman. And I know his grandfather, I shouldn’t say that to you. He was a tremendous man, Dan Tabas, but I’m going to introduce somebody that Dan always said had tremendous talent. Little did I know that he’d be working with us, and he’s really working well. He’s smart, he’s tough. Lawrence Tabas. Come on up, Lawrence. Come on up.
 Also with us tonight, Pennsylvania Trump Victory Chairwoman, Bernie. You know this, right? You know this person. Comfort. Do you know who that is? Do you know who that is? Everybody knows who that is. National Committeeman Bob Asher, RNC Co-chairman Tommy Hicks has been incredible, and my friend David Urban. David.
 So I just want to thank, this is an amazing group of people, and with their help, and the help of everyone here, we are going to set records like we’ve never set before. You know, I used to say, and I sort of still have to say, 2016, I don’t know if anything like that can ever happen, but I think we’re much better. All of the things I said, “We’re going to cut taxes. We’re going to cut regulations. We’re going to take care of our vets,” look what we did for our vets, with choice, right? Look what we did. Look what we did.
 We now have the ability to fire all of the bad people that are in the VA. Right? Fired over 8,000 people that were disrespecting our vets. They wouldn’t have done it in primetime, I can tell you that. But what we’ve done for our vets, what we’ve done in rebuilding our military, what we’ve done in so many ways, and we, unlike the Democrats, will protect your Second Amendment. Okay? So we’ve done a job, and we’re proud of it, and we have tremendous people. Let’s give them a hand, and thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, folks. Vote for these people. Even if you don’t like them, vote for them. Oh, that’s a beautiful new hat. Look at the hat that guy’s got on. How’s that hat working out? Is that good? I love that hat. Look at this guy, that says Keep America Great.
 Should we do the poll? Should we do a poll? Okay, ready? So we have the greatest phrase in the history of politics, Make America Great Again. Wait. And we have our new phrase, because we’ve made America great. I’ve told you, stock market, we’ve rebuilt our military, we’ve cut your taxes at a level that nobody could even think possible. Take a look at your median income, take a look at what’s happened. The numbers, median household income, take a look at your numbers. With President Bush, it went up $400 in eight years. With President Obama, it went up $975 in eight years. With President Trump, it went up 5,000, but whoa, whoa, whoa, in less than three years. That’s a big thing. Wait. And then when you add energy savings, and you add tax savings, you have almost a $10,000 gain in three years. That’s a big difference.
 And that’s one of the very big reasons why our, I think that and regulations, but that’s one of the very big reasons why our economy is doing so well, because they talk about our consumer is loaded with money. Thank you very much, Mr. President, I appreciate it. But with the help of everyone here, we have now the hottest economy. You know when I meet dictators, and presidents, and kings, and queens, and prime ministers, they all come into that beautiful Oval Office. So beautiful, right? So respected.
 And the first thing they almost always say, “Sir, congratulations on your economy. We’re trying to do the same thing.” I said, “You won’t be able to do it. You won’t.” They won’t be able to. Let them give it a shot. But they all say, “Congratulations on the great job you’ve done with economy.” But we’ve all done the great job. Not me. We’ve all done it. I’ve been your spokesman, and I’ve done a good job as spokesman. But they all say that.
 But we’ve done a good job in many ways. You know, all of the promises that I made, I’m the only politician in history that I’ve actually kept more promises than I made. Think of that. In other words, I made here, like a thing like Right to Try, nobody talked about Right to Try. We got Right to Try. That’s somebody terminally ill, we have the greatest medicines in the world, the greatest doctors, the greatest labs in the world, nobody close, but it takes years to get it approved. And I got it approved so you can sign a document, get it. If you want to see the lives that we’re saving, it’s a beautiful thing. A beautiful thing is happening, Right to Try. Right to Try.
 But we’ve also created 7 million new jobs since the election. If I would have said that, the fake news would have gone crazy, they would have said that’s impossible. These people would have gone crazy. They go crazy anyway, and I don’t even say it. And right here in Pennsylvania, we’ve created 160, 000 brand new beautiful jobs, and you have companies moving in and moving back. And as I said, African American, Hispanic American, Asian American unemployment, the lowest ever in the history of our country, the lowest unemployment rates. Wages for low income workers have gone up more than 10%. Nobody thought that was possible. They’re one of the biggest, in terms of a group, one of the biggest beneficiaries. This year, 40 million American families will benefit from the Republican Child Tax Credit, each receiving an average of $2,200. We ended the last administration’s war on American energy, the United States is now, and I said it, and I’ll say it all night long, number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world, and there’s nobody even close. In the State of Pennsylvania, natural gas production is up 34% since our election, 34. Virtually every leading Democrat has pledged to entirely eliminate American production of oil, clean coal, natural gas. I don’t think somebody coming into Pennsylvania, you know those new petrochemical plants, they don’t like them at all. Thousands and thousands of jobs. Incredible. Millions of dollars in taxes.
 How about going to the State of Texas? We had one candidate who turned out not to be too good a candidate, right? Beto, Beto. Remember? So he wanted to get rid of religion, the Bible, he wanted to get rid of guns, and he wanted to get rid of oil. How about going to Texas and say, “No Bible, no oil,” think of this one, “No Bible, no oil, no guns.” I think you could be Abraham Lincoln and not win that particular race. And it wouldn’t be much different in the State of Pennsylvania, that I can tell you. But you know, somebody that believes in that is Sleepy Joe Biden. He was caught telling a far left radical activist that he would shut down fossil fuel production in Pennsylvania. You saw that. But the voters of this Commonwealth will never, ever let that happen. Can you imagine a guy coming in, whether it’s him or anybody else? They all want to do it. He just raises his hand, he has no clue what he’s doing. They raise their hand. Remember he looked? Do you want to give illegal aliens healthcare, even though we’re taking it away from our own soldiers that are up … and he looks and they’re all raising their hand? Did you see that? Well, he, “Oh, oh, oh, okay, I’ll do it too.”
 In addition to replacing NAFTA, I’ve taken the toughest ever action against China’s trade abuses. They want to make a deal so badly. And we’re doing well with the deal, but they want to make a deal. “Please make a deal. We don’t want to pay tariffs anymore. Please, please.”
 Thanks to our steel tariffs, steel mills in Pennsylvania are roaring back to life. And U.S. Steel has just announced $1 billion investment in Mon Valley Works in Pittsburgh. You know that, right? $1 billion. They weren’t investing, they were divesting. The steel companies, it’s an amazing achievement. We tax all of the dumped steel, comes in from China and other places, 25%.
 … the dump steel comes in from China and other places. 25%. All of it. All of a sudden our steel mills are doing again. We need steel. It’s not like you could say, “Gee, we’ll get it from another country.” We need that for defense. We need it for our ships, we need it for our planes. We need it. We can’t play games with steel.
 After years of rebuilding other nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation. Very importantly, in everything we do, we are putting America first. Sorry. We gave up on the globalist folks. Let’s build the world. Let’s forget about our country. Let’s just rebuild the world.
 Or no issue have the Democrat politicians more thoroughly betrayed the American people than on the issue of immigration. Far left politician… I mean, they’re fighting me on the wall, you have no idea. But we’re building it and it’s fine and we have the money coming in from the military. I’ve got it from here, from there, from there. Believe me, if I weren’t a good developer, you could forget about that wall. I’ve got here, there, there.
 These people fought me and we’ve started winning in court. You know what? Speaking of court, we will soon have 182 federal judges, including Court of Appeals. Nobody can believe it. All because Barack Obama gave us 142 empty seats.
 When you’re a president, they always say, “I disagree. I think the most important thing we can do is defense,” right? But beyond defense, they always say the most important thing you can do is judges and justices of the Supreme Court. We have two great ones. Great ones. But they always say, “Judges and Supreme Court justices.”
 When you leave office, I hope in 5 years, 9 years, 13 years, 17 years, 21 years, 25 years, 29 years. When I leave office… Now I’m only doing that to drive them totally crazy. That drives them crazy. Even joking about it.
 We have this idiot comedian who stands up, he’s talking to a guest, right? He said, “You know he’s going to win, don’t you? You know it.” The guy goes, “No, no. We’re going to fight. We’re going to fight.” And they will. “No, no, no. You know he’s going to win.” Then he goes, “You know he’s going to win. And you know he’s never leaving, don’t you? He’s never leaving.” At first I thought he was kidding. He’s a whack job. He is totally serious. He honestly believes that.
 I don’t know, should we give it a shot? Maybe we’ll give it a shot. I’m only kidding. I’m only kidding. Media, I’m only kidding. They won’t write that, but that’s okay. They won’t write the, “I’m only kidding part.”
 But far left politicians support deadly sanctuary cities demonstrating their sneering contempt, scorned and disdained for everyday Americans. These jurisdictions deliberately release dangerous, violent, criminal aliens out of their jails and directly onto your streets, where they are free to offend, where they are free to kill, where they are free to rape, where they are free to beat up people except for ICE because ICE is much tougher than them. They don’t beat up ICE. They don’t beat up ICE. You’re lucky we have ICE. They want to put ICE out of business. That’s not happening. ICE is… They’re incredible people. They’re great patriots and they’re tough.
 Thanks to Democrat immigration policies, innocent Americans in all 50 states are being brutalized and murdered by illegal alien criminals. Last summer, at least 19 illegal aliens were charged in connection with grizzly homicides, including hacking victims to death and ripping out, in two cases, their hearts. Weeks ago, two illegal aliens and members of the savage gang, MS-13, who we are removing from our country by the thousands, were charged with relentlessly beating a wonderful, beautiful high school teenager to death with a baseball bat and chopping the body apart with a machete. One of the animals accused was previously released by local authorities in defiance of an ICE demand. ICE warned and said, “You can’t let them go.” They wanted them. They would do anything for them. They wanted them to hand this animal over for deportation back to his country. Get them the hell out of our country, right?
 Democrats’ sanctuary cities also give safe haven to those who commit violent sex crimes. Since Montgomery County, Maryland declared itself a sanctuary jurisdiction in July, we have already identified nine illegal aliens who have been arrested for rape, sexual assault, including a 26-year-old man charged with raping and viciously strangling a young, wonderful woman who was entering her apartment, innocently entering her apartment. She was raped and killed, strangled to death. Sanctuary city. Maryland.
 But these are only the cases we know about. Sanctuary cities and jails actively conceal illegal alien crime and criminals from federal government. Federal government wants to take them out, or in some cases, if it’s real violence, and we don’t want to pay for the cost, but we do, put them into very strong jails. The sanctuary city of Philadelphia. The sanctuary city in Philadelphia is one of the very worst sanctuaries anywhere in America. Did you know that? I mean, I know Philadelphia well. Going to school here, we never heard about sanctuary cities, did we?
 Weeks ago an illegal alien charged with rape, sexual assault of a child, and inflicting serious bodily injury was released by Philadelphia to wander free in your communities. By the way, you may have the worst district attorney or whatever the hell you call it. This guy, I’ve been hearing about this guy, he lets killers out almost immediately. What the hell? How did you let that happen? Instead of handing them over while still in jail, they defied ICE. They fought with ICE and set him loose upon an unsuspecting family. Thankfully, at great time and effort, our brave ICE officers were eventually able to track him down, arrest him, detain him, and do what has to be done.
 How do you elect Democrats when they create a sanctuary city of Philadelphia? I don’t get it.
 Four MS-13 gang members were also arrested in Pennsylvania in connection with the brutal and sadistic murders of a 21-year-old and a 15-year-old. As we speak, a criminal illegal alien with three prior deportations is roaming free in Pennsylvania because he was released by the city of Philadelphia, the city of brotherly love.
 You better get yourself a new prosecutor in this place, I want to tell you. That’s a horrible thing. No, it’s a national story, how he wants everybody to not pay the price. You’re talking about not paying the price for rape, for murder, for other horrible crimes. How stupid can you be? The charges against this alien include rape, aggravated indecent assault, unlawful contact with a minor, indecent exposure, and terroristic threats. Other than that, he was a very nice person. Philadelphia has defied ICE and released illegals charged with everything from assault, to kidnapping, to drug crimes, to sex crimes, to homicide murder.
 Democrats stand for crime, corruption, and chaos. Republicans stand for law and order, and we stand for justice. We stand for justice. We side with law enforcement and with law-abiding Americans, not ruthless gang members and not violent criminals, aliens that come into our country illegally. They take our payments. Payments. Some of these people with these crazy laws that you have. Look at what’s going on in California. They do better than our great veterans. They do better than citizens of our country. And they advertise, “We will take you. We will take care of you. We will pay for it.” And then you wonder why we have so many people trying to come through at the borders.
 But we do a great job. We’re removing these criminal illegal aliens from our country by the thousands. We’re sending them home, and we’re not letting them come back in. We’re being very tough. Mexico is now giving us 27,000 soldiers at our border. And Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador, we signed a very important agreement with each. When their people come into our country, they weren’t taking them back. Now they take them back and they say, “Thank you very much.” They weren’t taking them back. If we had a murderer from Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador, we want to bring them back under past administrations. They bring them and they say, “We don’t want them. Don’t land. You’re playing with us.” They say, “Thank you very much. We will take them back.” Because we’ve let them know the price is very bad if they don’t do that.
 Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, illegal crossings are down 75% since May and the wall is going up at a very rapid pace.
 The radical Democrats have gotten more and more extreme. That’s why they did this impeachment hoax, because Nancy Pelosi had absolutely no control. She knew what was going to happen. She knew. The radical left has taken over the Democrat party. Democrats are pushing for a socialist takeover of healthcare that would strip you of the doctor and coverage of your choice. We have 180 million people with private healthcare that love it. They’re going to take it away from you. I don’t think so.
 Crazy Elizabeth Warren, or as I affectionately call her, Pocahontas, her ridiculous plan would cost $52 trillion. That’s more money than we take in in one year, two years, three years, four years, five years, six years, about seven years. That’s for one year. $52 trillion. And you don’t have your doctor. I mean, the whole… Well, she’s starting to crash again. I thought I knocked her down. I did that heavy, heavy Pocahontas deal. I give her credit. I thought she was left for… I mean, there were just little embers, and then she rose. She rose, then she became strong. But then she opened that fresh mouth of hers and it stopped. It stopped.
 I don’t see her as a threat. I don’t think she makes it. I mean, you don’t know. Crazy things are happening in the Democrat party. It used to be a sane party. Now it’s an insane party. So you don’t know. But they’re all looking at the same thing.
 I mean, you have Alfred E. Neuman who’s running, who’s this guy. This guy Buttigieg. Buttigieg. Can you believe he’s doing well? He’s like the leading fundraiser. I dream about him. It’s true. No, Buttigieg. But I’m not going too far with any of these people because I thought I was way too early with Elizabeth Warren. We destroyed her too fast. So she came back. But she’s going back down again. Did anybody see her beer deal where she said, “Darling.” Did you ever see that deal? Darling. It’s about her husband. Darling, it’s great to see you. What are you doing here? It’s like, “That’s her husband, he’s supposed to be living in the house. You’re here.” I don’t think she’s seen him in 10 years. Hey, I have an idea. Can I get a beer? Let’s get a beer. She wants to be one of the group. Hey, let’s get a beer. Did you ever see such a phony, disgusting deal?
 Republicans will defend your sacred right to choose the doctor, and you can choose your plan, and you choose the plan that’s right for you. We will strongly protect patients with preexisting conditions. We will also protect your right to get the physician that you want. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb, right up until the moment of birth.
 This character in Virginia. Did you see the Virginia governor? I mean, he gave a whole expose. The baby is born, and then basically, they start talking to the mother. The baby is born. And there’s no other word. If the mother decides no, then they execute the baby. Okay? He’s the governor of Virginia and why the Republicans aren’t going to win Virginia this next election, 2020. I’ll tell you what, we’re going to give it a very strong shot. When you have people like that, we’re going to give it a very strong shot.
 But that’s why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion. Because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.
 Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and the party of honest Abe Lincoln. Party of Abe Lincoln.
 I told you about judges. I’m telling you about so many other things. There’s nobody that’s ever done what we’re doing. You look at school choice for every child in America who needs it, including the 50,000 Pennsylvania students who your Democrat governor has blocked from getting school choice scholarships. No scholarships available. What’s that all about? How did that happen?
 I withdrew from the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear deal, a disaster. I recognize Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and we are standing up for the people of Pennsylvania. You’ve never had that better year. Never
 At stake in our present battle is the survival of the American nation itself. It’s the survival. We will destroy our country if these people get in. I say we’ve done so much in the first three years, will soon be four years. All of a sudden the time will be up. But it’s like when you plant a tree, it needs time to grab on. It needs time to let it… It’s got to grab. That’s what we need. We need time. And we have other things we’re going to do that are incredible. We still have tremendous regulation cutting that we can do.
 We’ve cut more regulations than any president in the history of our country. We did it in less than two and a half years. Two and a half years. We did it in less than two and a half years. Some had eight years, one had more than eight years. More regulation. And we have regulation, and you need some regulation, but you don’t need regulation that doesn’t allow you to build a simple road or highway. So what we’ve done has been incredible. That’s one of the reasons our job numbers are so good.
 If you want your children to inherit the birthright of American Liberty that generations of Americans have fought and died for to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in 2020, and we have to get rid of the Democrats in the House of Representatives. They are stone cold crazy. Only this way can we save the America we love and clean up Washington corruption once and for all. With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity.
 We have tremendous prosperity going on in our country, and the people in this room are… I mean, you know what’s happening. You know what’s happening with your families. You know what’s happening with your jobs. You’ve never had a time like this. They always say, “Are you better off now than you were four years ago?” I mean, who is better off now? Everybody, I think. Everybody.
 But together, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration. We will enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, “Made in the USA.”
 We just finished a deal with South Korea, a great new trade deal. We just finished a $40 billion deal with Japan. We’re in the process of getting our deal done. Let’s see what happens. They want to make it more than I do with because we’re taking in a lot of money. We haven’t taken in money from China ever, and it’s coming in now by the billions. When they target our farmer, I give our farmers that money that they’ve been targeted and our farmers are thrilled.
 We have a lot leftover, but we will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer, and ending the AIDS epidemic in America. We’ll have that done within 10 years. It could have started. That could have started earlier than the beginning of our administration. We’ll have that done in less than 10 years. Think of that. The AIDS epidemic will have ended in America within less than 10 years.
 We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America, one great country. One America. We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we live by the words of our national motto, “In God we trust.”
 We stand on the shoulders of generations of Pennsylvania patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. Pennsylvania’s the place where our founding fathers declared American independence, where the army weathered its brutal winter at Valley Forge, and where General George Washington led his men across the Delaware on Christmas night. They used the password. You know what the password was? Victory or death. Victory or death. How incredible is that? Victory or death.
 Pennsylvania is the state that gave us self-made titans of American industry, from Andrew Carnegie to Milton Hershey. I love Hershey. I love Hershey. And Henry J. Heinz. Pennsylvania is the place where strong American workers mine the coal, work the railroads, and forge the steel that made America into the greatest and most powerful nation in the history of the world, and we are making it even greater every single day. It’s greater than ever before. And proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. They are trying to take your power away. It will never ever happen. With your help, and with your devotion, and your drive we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are going to keep on winning.
 We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. Ladies and gentlemen of Pennsylvania, the best is yet to come. Because together we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Pennsylvania. Thank you.
 USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
 Well, thank you very much. Vice President Mike Pence, great job you’re doing. And hello Toledo! We love Toledo. You remember, I was here a lot. You remember 2016, what a year that was, right? And 2020 is going to be even better, no doubt. But I’m thrilled to hold the first rally of 2020 right here in the great state of Ohio. And as we begin the new year, our economy is booming, wages are soaring, workers are thriving, and America’s future has never, ever looked brighter, ever. We’re the envy of every country in the world. We’ve created seven million brand new jobs since our election. And we will soon be replacing the disaster known as NAFTA with the incredible brand new USMCA, the historic victory for Ohio farmers, workers, and manufacturers, but really a great victory for the United States. It’s an incredible agreement.
 You remember I came and I’d always talk about how bad our trade deals are. We did a brand new one with Korea. So now we have South Korea, we just finished a big one, $40 billion with Japan. On January 15, we’re signing a monster, a big beautiful monster, $40 to $50 billion to our farmers. Our farmers will be taking in, I keep saying go buy larger tractors. Go buy larger tractors. I said there’s no way, I don’t know if you know this story, my people wanted 20 billion to purchase, right? 20 billion, 20, that’s a lot money, that’s a lot of corn, $20 billion, and I said, “Make it 50. China’s very big.” And they said, “Okay.” They said, “Sir, the farmers can’t produce that much.” I said, “Let the farmers tell me that. Tell them to go out and, remember, and buy a bigger what? Tractor, buy a bigger tractor.” You’ll produce it.
 So $40 to $50 billion of agriculture product and the manufacturers and the car companies, and we brought a lot of car companies into Ohio, you know that. A lot of them are coming in. A lot of them have already been brought in. They’re coming in from Japan, they’re coming in from all over the world. This is where they want to be. They want to be in the United States. This is where the action is. They’re all coming back. I used to go around and talk about how everyone’s leaving. They were all leaving. A lot of you were victims of that leaving. These companies would leave, they’d go to Mexico, they’d go to Canada, they’d close up, they’d buy from China. Now they’re all coming back, new ones, old ones, they’re all coming back, and many are coming right here to Ohio. And just in case you didn’t know it, Ohio just had the best year economically in the history of your state. That’s not bad, that’s not bad. And this year’s going to be even better and maybe much better.
 But weeks ago, I signed the largest ever investment in the United States military, $ 738 billion, and we created the sixth branch of the United States Armed Forces, the Space Force, and everybody’s excited about that.
 USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
 After years and years of devastating defense cuts, we have fully rebuilt the United States military. Some of it’s still coming in. We have everything. We’ve got new planes, we’ve got new rockets, new missiles, we’ve got new everything, and it’s either here or coming in, $2.5 trillion in new investments. So our military is now stronger and more powerful than ever before. And if you remember, three years ago when I took over, we were depleted. Our military was totally depleted.
 And by the way, speaking of our military, have we taken care of our vets with Choice, with Choice. That was a big thing. You know, I used to go around and the VA was a terrible situation. People would wait weeks. He’s right, he said, “Yes, it was.” You don’t hear too much about that anymore, have you noticed? Choice and accountability, you know what accountability is? For 44 years, they tried to get accountability. That’s somebody bad, works for the VA, you couldn’t fire them. You couldn’t fire them. They could be sadistic, they could be thieves, they could be whatever they were, you couldn’t get rid of them. We got accountability approved, and now we say, “You’re fired, get out.” We get somebody that’s good.
 44 years, and maybe most importantly of all is Choice, VA, Veterans Choice. So you now wait in line, and a lot of times you’d wait in line for four or five, six weeks you couldn’t see a doctor. Now you don’t have to wait. You go out to a private doctor, you get yourself taken care of, we pay the bill. What a difference it’s made. What a difference it’s made. You know, when I was a little bit newer to this game–
 Boo! USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
 That’s okay, they got it, they got it. They go home to mommy. Go on home to mommy. Go on home to mommy. It’s a beautiful sight. Thank you, security. Do we love law enforcement, by the way?
 So with the VA, I used to go around saying, “Why don’t they do that? Why don’t these people, why don’t they go to a private doctor and work something out?” And I thought it was a brilliant plan. I said, “I’m telling you I am such a smart guy.” I said, “This is the most brilliant thing ever.” And I went back to my people and I said, “I have an idea. A veteran’s sick, they can’t get the kind of service they need, they need a certain kind of doctor, I have an idea, such a great idea. You get to go out, private, you’re going to pick out a doctor, you’re going to get yourself fixed up. We’re going to pay the bill, right?” And you know what happened? And I said, “How brilliant is that?” They said, “Sir, we’ve been working on that for 48 years, but we’ve never been able to get it approved.”
 So I was very, very disillusioned, but you know what I’m good at? Getting things approved. And we got it approved. So we signed that 11 months ago, and what a difference that’s made in terms of your lines and in terms of people’s health. People would wait online for weeks, and some people weren’t very sick and they’d end up being terminally ill. They couldn’t get to see the doctor. Now they go out, they get a doctor, we take care of them. We can take care of our vets.
 So we’re using this great power not to pursue conflict, but to really preserve, and I mean in the true sense of the word, preserve peace. We have this tremendous military, and you know what that is? That’s really a great fighting force, but I hope we never have to use it. I really do. You saw an example of that a couple of days ago. So we seek friends, not enemies, but if you dare to threaten our citizens, you do so at your own grave peril. We’ve never had a military, what we have now, we’ve never had anything like it. We were looking at planes that were old and tired, 50, 60-year-old planes. You’ve heard the story, the grandfather flew them, the son flew them, the current wonderful person flew them, the whole family flew them. Those are all gone now, folks. Those are all gone.
 In October of last year, US Special Operations Forces executed a daring nighttime raid that killed the bloodthirsty founder and leader of ISIS. The animal known as al- Baghdadi is dead. And the entire ISIS caliphate is destroyed, and his terrorist empire, and he was indeed a monster, has been totally demolished. We killed thousands and thousands of ISIS warriors, fighters, and we have thousands of them right now locked up where they should be. Nobody has ever done what we’ve done in three years. And I’ll say this, when we took it over, it was a mess. We did it in a short period of time, but when we took it over, it was not good. And last week, the United States once again took the bold and decisive action to save American lives and deliver American justice. And you know what I’m talking about.
 For years, the sadistic mass murderer, Qasam Soleimani, planned and executed attacks against American targets, killing and wounding thousands of US service members and many, many thousands, and even hundreds of thousands, of other people. As the leader of Iran’s terrorist Quds Force, Soleimani spread death, destruction, and mayhem across the Middle East and far beyond. He ordered the violent assault on the American embassy in Baghdad. And you saw this was the anti-Benghazi. We got there very quickly. We got there very quickly. This is the exact opposite, we did it exactly the opposite of Benghazi, where they got there so late, all they saw when they got there days later were burning embers from the days before. That’s all they saw.
 We got there very early. We saw what was happening. I saw what was happening, and I said, “What’s that all about?” And that was going to be another Benghazi. Had they broken through the final panels of glass, they were breaking and breaking it, had they gotten through, we would have had either hundreds of dead people or hundreds of hostages. That wasn’t going to happen. And I called up our great generals, and I said, “Get them over there now.” And one of our leaders, one of our really admired people, said, “Sir, we’ll have them there tomorrow.” I said, “Nope, get in the planes right now, have them there immediately,” and they got there immediately, fortunately.
 But he directed the recent rocket strikes that wounded four American service members, badly wounded, and killed an American citizen. That was just before we happened to hit him. Soleimani was actively planning new attacks and he was looking very seriously at our embassies, and not just the embassy in Baghdad. But we stopped him, we stopped him quickly and we stopped him cold. So at my direction, the United States military eliminated Qasam Soleimani and ended his rampage through not only that part of the world, but much bigger parts of the world, he was all over. He was a bad guy, he was a bloodthirsty terror and he’s no longer a terror, he’s dead.
 And yet now I see the radical left Democrats have expressed outrage over the termination of this horrible terrorist. And you know, instead they should be outraged by Soleimani’s savage crimes and the fact that his countless victims were denied justice for so long. He was the king of the roadside bomb. You know of the roadside bomb, and then they got bigger, and he’d send them over to Afghanistan and Iraq. And when you see our friends and our great wounded warriors and our great warriors, when you see them without their legs and without arms and with so much damage, it’s most likely that he caused that damage, because that’s what he liked. He loved planting the roadside bomb. So now he’s gone, and that’s a good thing.
 Bernie Sanders, crazy Bernie, has condemned the US military strike on Soleimani, the world’s top terrorist, think of it, the world’s top terrorist, and we’re having people like Nancy Pelosi, that’s a real genius, do you believe that one? Nancy, nervous Nancy. But here’s a guy who slaughtered and butchered civilians all over and military, whoever was in his way, and we have Bernie and Nancy Pelosi, we have them all, they’re all trying to say, “How dare you take him out that way? You should get permission from Congress. You should come in and tell us what you want to do. You should come in and tell us so that we can call up the fake news that’s back there and we can leak it.” That’s a lot of corruption back there, folks.
 No, but think, seriously, so they want me… So these are split-second decisions. You have to make a decision. So they don’t want me to make that decision. They want me to call up, maybe go over there, let me go over to Congress, or come on over to the White House, let’s talk about it. When can you make it? Well, I won’t be able to make it today, sir, so how about say in a couple of days? Oh, good, come on over. No, we got a call, we heard where he was, we knew the way he was getting there, and we had to make a decision. We didn’t have time to call up Nancy, who is not operating with a full deck. No, they want us to call, can you imagine calling crooked Adam Schiff? He’s so crooked, he’s so crooked. Shifty Schiff and say, “Gee, Adam, how are you doing? Listen, we have the world’s number one terrorist, killed thousands and thousands of people. We’d like to set up a meeting so we can discuss his execution. Would you be willing to meet?” “Well, I won’t be able to make it this week.” “Well, you know, he’s traveling fast. We got him lined up, Adam, you little pencil-neck.” Nine inches. He buys the smallest shirt collar you can get, and it’s loose. Now come on, Adam, we got to meet faster on it. We got to take this guy out. We’re not going to have another shot at him maybe ever again. “But I can’t make it now because I’m trying to impeach Trump, I’m trying to impeach, even though he did nothing wrong.”
 By the way, did you see, I did nothing wrong. They don’t even know what in the hell is going on. In fact, it’s so weak, she doesn’t want to put in the articles, it’s so weak. They’re so pathetic. They’re so pathetic. So they want us to call them. Now, Schiff is a big leaker. He leaks to crazy CNN. See with the little red light on over there.
 Not too many people are watching CNN. But he leaks. So he’ll say, “You know, off the record, I got to hurry up because everyone’s watching me in the hallway on my cell phone, off the record they’ve got the number one terrorist in the world, Soleimani, and they’re going to get him, they’re going to take him out in the next 10 minutes. Please, don’t tell anybody I told you.” So we have breaking news, President Trump within the next 20, 25 minutes, looks to be taking out terrorist General Soleimani. He’s going to do it. It should be happening in about the next 20 minutes, 19, 18, 17.” Then we get back to the battlefield, how’d you do, fellas? “I don’t know, sir, he disappeared. I don’t know what happened to him.” They want us to tell them so that they can leak it to their friends in the corrupt media.
 You got to say though, that’s a lot of media, right? That’s the way the Academy Awards used to look when it was successful. Then they started hitting us all the time and it became unsuccessful. I love it, I love it, actually. Oh, they have some bad ones here tonight. They have some really bad ones, some really sick ones. They have one good one, by the way, one good one. They have one good one, a bunch of bad ones. Very, very dishonest people and we have some great ones, too.
 We have some great journalists, great reporters. But you’ve got a tremendous amount of dishonest media people like I have never seen in my life before. They write things that they know are wrong. They write, if you watched for the last three years, think of it, and then they get Pulitzer Prizes, but it turned out to be all wrong. How do you do that? They get Pulitzer Prizes for being wrong. The Pulitzer Prize doesn’t mean a thing. It doesn’t mean a thing.
 I mean, I’m here to tell you about the Nobel Peace Prize. I’ll tell you about that. I made a deal. I saved a country. And I just heard that the head of that country is now getting the Noble Peace Prize for saving the country. I said, “Did I have something to do with it?” Yeah, but you know, that’s the way it is. As long as we know, that’s all that matters. I saved a big war. I saved a couple of them. But under my administration, we will never make excuses for America’s enemies, we will never hesitate in defending American lives, and we will never stop working to defeat radical Islamic terrorism, never. And nobody’s done it like we’ve done it. And it’s we, it’s we. It’s not me, it’s we. It’s a whole movement.
 There has, by the way, never been a movement like this. You know, outside, I don’t know what this place holds, it’s like 10, 11,000 people, right? Outside you have thousands and thousands of people that want to get in. There’s never been a movement like this. There’s never been a movement like this. And I’ll tell you, maybe I’m wrong, but this is bigger than it was in 2016, because in 2016 I said what we’re going to do, but now I’ve completed more promises than I’ve made. I mean, I’ve actually completed more, right?
 Four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years.
 Like, as an example, many of you were here, look at all those beautiful red hats, keep America great, that’s good. But I never talked about, did you ever hear me prior to the election talk about Space Force? I never talked about it. We did Space Force, but did we ever speak about it? No. There were many things that we’ve done that we never spoke about, right? Right to Try, you know about Right to Try, right? They’ve been trying to get it for 44 years, Right to Try. That’s people that are very sick, terminally ill, and they can’t get medicine that possibly works. And very well, we have the greatest labs and the greatest doctors in the world, the greatest scientists in the world, we have the greatest medicines in the world.
 If they have something that they’re pretty sure is going to work but is going to take another six years, I brought those times way back, by the way, way down, but they would travel to Asia, they would travel to Europe, they would travel all over the world to try and get a cure because we wouldn’t sell them the medicine because we didn’t want to take a chance on making the people sick. I said, “Wait a minute, they’re going to die. They’re going to die.” “Well, sir, we can’t take the liability.” I said, “Then we’ll draw up a statement assessing all liability, taking all liability away from the country, away from the insurance companies, away from the healthcare companies, away from the doctors.”
 And with the great help of a lot of incredible Republicans, and we had some Democrats help us, we passed Right to Try, and you have to see how this works. Some people are being, many people are being saved. And you know, the drug companies didn’t like it because they didn’t want to take people that sick, because they didn’t want it on their charts. I said, “I understand that. We won’t include that. We’ll have a separate list over here.” They said, “Oh, would you do that?” I said, “Yeah, I’ll do that, I’ll do that.”
 But I didn’t talk about Right to Try. I never said I was going to get that done, we got it done. That was a tough one to get done. It sounds simple, but it was tough. There’s nothing easy in this country. You know, they said to me, a friend of mine the other day, “Who’s the toughest country to deal with, President?” He used to call me Donald. I’ve known this guy for a long time. I’d like to say 20 years, but it’s much more than that. I just don’t want to tell you how long, it’s too long. And I said, “Call me Donald. You’ve always called me Donald.” “I can’t.” He calls me Mr. President. I’ve known this guy forever. He used to call me, “Hey, Donald, let’s go out to dinner.” You know before, he’d go, “Hey, let’s go out to dinner.” Now he goes, “Mr. President, sir, how are you?” Right? How are you? But what we’ve done, and he said, he told me, “What you’ve done, we’ve never seen anything like it.”
 So many people are saying that. We are all together doing something, not only in terms of the election, not only in terms of what we’re doing right now. Don’t forget, it’s a long way to the election. You know, we have what, 10 months? That’s a long way. This is my first stop of the year, first major stop of the year. This is it. And we start.
 By the way, let’s do one of those polls right now, do you mind? Is there anything more fun than a Trump rally? Here we are.
 Anything more fun than a Trump rally? Here we are. We have the greatest phrase of all time, Make America Great Again, and all due respect, I’ll never end … I’m a little superstitious. I’ll never end it, Make America Great Again, but I see all those hats. I see all those hats, changing it a little bit, but Make America Great Again.
 I said, you know, today, we just hit the highest stock price in the history of our country. Your 401ks are at records, your stocks are great, but what it really means to me is jobs, more importantly, than anything else. We have the best jobs, the best everything, right? We just hit … I can’t really say, Make America Great Again.
 Our military is rebuilt, $2.5 trillion. Our military is rebuilt. We’re doing great numbers. Economically, our country is the strongest it’s ever been. You have factories moving back into Ohio. You never saw anything like it, right? You had your best year. When I say Make America Great Again, what that sort of means is we didn’t get there, but we did get there.
 Now, I have a new theme. It’s called Keep America Great. Keep America Great. Now, I’m a very loyal person, and I am concerned about changing the theme because Make America Great Again I think was the greatest political campaign in history. I mean, crooked Hillary spent three or four times more money than I have spent.
 Crooked Hillary, wait, crooked … We should lock her up, I’ll tell you. Crooked Hillary spent three or four times more. I wanted to be a little bit … I have to say, that was a great campaign, and I don’t want to change it. I don’t want to have this incredible 2016, then go with something, and if something ever happened, this country will go to hell, I just …
 You know the stocks I’m talking about, the records. You don’t have records this way. You have records. Get used to it, because if that happened, you will see things happen that aren’t good. But, I have to now say, do I want to change the greatest theme in political history, Make America Great Again, with Keep America Great, right?
 Let’s take a little applause, right? We’ll go Make America Great Again, you’d clap if you want that. Then we would go, Keep America Great, you’d clap if you like that. Okay, are you ready? First, Make America Great Again. Ready? Keep America Great.
 USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
 You know, that, I call that a free poll. That’s better than a poll. Do you ever see these crazy polls that come out? We’re doing great in the polls, by the way. Remember, I used to come out and talk about the polls? We’ll start doing that very soon. We’re doing great in the polls, but this is like a free poll.
 Somebody else would go out, they have all this money that they raised, and they give somebody $1 million, and they’ll ask 200 people that question. Then, they’ll say, “Well, Make America Great Again is better,” but I will tell you, I haven’t heard one thing where that was true. With all of these … I would have said, instinctively, Make America Great Again could not be beaten. I’ve probably done this 10 times. I have never had it win. It’s Keep America Great, and that’s what we’re doing, but we’re going to use both. We’re going to use both.
 We’re going to use both, because there’s no way that I’m going to jettison Make America Great, right? There’s no way. We’re going to use both, but this hat is a hot seller. We’re selling that hat like nobody’s ever sold a hat before, [inaudible 00:35:37] … Good. Keep America Great. We’re going to use both, but Keep America Great. That’s probably going to be the dominant theme.
 For eight years, the Obama administration enabled and emboldened-
 … the Iranian regime. They gave Iran $150 billion, including $1.7 billion-
 … in hard, cold cash. Can you imagine? No, no, can you imagine? $1.7 billion, $1.8 billion in cash?
 The foolish Iran nuclear deal financed Iranian aggression while allowing a quick path to nuclear breakout, that’s what it did. By the way, it expires so soon. They can have nuclear weapons. They’re not, as I said before, they will not have nuclear weapons.
 By subsidizing Iran’s malign conduct, the last administration was leading the world down the path of war. We are restoring our world to the path of peace, peace through strength, peace through strength. Our country’s doing great, and I think something is going to happen that’s got to be good. You know, we’ve sanctioned the hell out of Iran, and we just put more on [inaudible 00:37:03] …
 They hit us with 16 missiles, and I said, “How many?” We were ready to go. We were ready to go. I said, “How many? How many died? How many were wounded?” “Sir, none.” None? Pretty good warning system, none. How many were hurt? How many were … None, sir. So, we didn’t do anything. We were ready. We were ready. Not that I wanted to, but we were ready. You have no idea. A lot of people got very lucky.
 We’re thrilled to be joined tonight by many great Republican leaders, a man who has helped me right from the beginning, a very special guy, Representative Bill Johnson, Bill. Where is Bill? Thank you, Bill. Thank you, Bill. Great job, great job, and his fellow friends, Jim Jordan, [inaudible 00:38:12] …
 We have a lot of your Congressmen right now in Congress. They said, “Sir, should we come with you?” I said, “No, stay back and vote.” They’re voting on some pretty important stuff, right? But, we were able to get Bill. We thank you, Bill, very much, great job, great warrior. Thank you, Bill.
 Ohio Lieutenant Governor, Jon Husted. Thank you, Jon. Thank you, Jon. Thank you, Jon. Great job. State Treasurer, Robert Sprague. Thank you, Robert, and you have a lot more money in the bank right now, Robert, as Treasurer, right, than you ever did?
 Ohio Supreme Court Justice, Judy French. Thank you, Judy. Great job. State Senate President, a man highly respected, Larry Obhof. Thank you, Larry.
 And, a woman who really has become a great friend of mine. She took over this party. We fought like hell. We had some other people that had their mind on taking over the party, but they’d never had a chance against Jane Timken, Jane.
 And, the man who is in charge of my campaign in Ohio, I had a choice of five people. I said, “I like this guy’s name.” I don’t know why. His name is Bob Paduchik. Why do I like his name? I said “Bob, how are we doing?” He said, “You’re going to win big, sir.”
 Because, you know, you keep hearing, you cannot win unless you win the great state of Ohio. That’s these guys. Once, I was leading Ohio by a lot in the poll. They never say that anymore. It’s terrible. They were saying it when they thought I wasn’t going to win, but we were ahead right from the beginning.
 But Bob was, incredibly, did a fantastic job. Bob, I’d call him up. I’d say, “Bob, we don’t have the Governor, we don’t have the head of the Republican Party.” You know, it’s a minor problem, when you’re running as a Republican, and he punked out on us, right, this guy? We don’t have any. He said, “Sir, you have the people.” I said, well, what happens [inaudible 00:40:26] …
 I said, “Bob, let me ask you, just out of curiosity, I don’t have these people. The leaders are not with us. Is that good or bad?” He said, “Sir, it’s great. You just went up three points, would you believe this, by not having it?” He said, “Don’t worry, sir, you’re going to win,” and we won by a lot. Now, I understand we’re up by a lot more than we ever thought possible. Bob was fantastic. Thank you, Bob.
 Thanks to Republican leadership work, but can you believe this? I have a 95% approval rating. Can you believe that? You know who second is? We do, we do, we do. Do you know who second is? Ronald Reagan at 87%, Ronald Reagan. Ronald [inaudible 00:40:55] …
 Then, one of these characters back there, they put me in a contest with the late great Abraham Lincoln, right? Who do you like better, Trump or Abraham Lincoln? I said Abraham Lincoln-
 I said, who do you like better? They say they did a poll on this. I think I remember the numbers. All I know is, we won against Abraham, Honest Abe. We won, 53 to 47. Can you believe that, Abraham Lincoln? I went back to the First Lady, I said, “First Lady, I just beat Abraham Lincoln in a poll.” I don’t know if they had polls back then, but Abraham Lincoln. I always say I can be more Presidential than any candidate that ever ran, than any President, other than maybe Abraham Lincoln when he’s wearing his hat.
 I like Abe Lincoln, but when we’re doing well, we have a lot of support. Do you know why? Because our country is doing so well. Our country is doing so well. When we went out, we started, and we went right to the top of the polls. It wasn’t like these folks today. They are 2%, 3%, but they’re climbing.
 We went right to the top from day one. We never missed center stage in the debates. Remember those great debates? We actually got high ratings. They don’t get very good ratings anymore. They’re like, it’s like death, watching. I should watch. You know, I’m supposed to watch. It’s like my job. Try and watch, watch the competition, but it’s like watching death.
 Those debates are boring. They’re boring. You got to sit through those things for two or three hours. You got to really be committed to the country to do that. I mean, you have some real [inaudible 00:43:47] … Did you see where Pocahontas is slipping, badly? Bernie, Bernie has gone up.
 He’s surging, Bernie’s, crazy Bernie, he’s surging, and Biden doesn’t know the difference between Iran and Iraq. He’s gotten it wrong four times.
 He goes, “When we took our shot at Iraq …” No, no, no. They’re all saying, “No, no,” they’re screaming, “It’s Iran, Iran.” What? His son, right? Where’s Hunter, where is Hunter?
 No, I went to one of them. I said, “We have to have where is Hunter as a witness.” They said, “What do you mean, where is Hunter?” I said, “That’s his first name. I have now made his first name Where’s. Where’s Hunter?” Here’s a guy, made no money, got thrown out of the military forces, I think the Navy, got thrown out, had no job, had no nothing, so, he went from that to making millions of dollars a year as soon as Sleepy Joe became Vice President.
 He made millions of dollars a year. Would anybody in this room do that for millions of … I would. He made millions and millions of dollars a year. Ukraine took care of him.
 How about China? He walked out with $1.5 billion to manage, and he never did it before. He didn’t know anything about oil and gas. He was making a fortune. So, where is Hunter? Where the hell are you, Hunter? I’ll tell you, I sort of hope it’s Joe, because he will hear where’s Hunter every single debate, nine times a debate. Where is Hunter?
 Then, you have Buttigieg, Buttigieg, Buttigieg. Nobody, nobody can pronounce … Nobody has any idea how the hell to say his name. What they do is they call him Mayor Pete, you know, like, Mayor Pete. Here comes Mayor Pete. Doesn’t do a very good job. Alfred E. Neuman, [inaudible 00:46:20] … Howdy Doody. The problem is, a lot of people don’t remember Alfred E. Neuman. Don’t say that. You look much younger than that, I must say.
 You have Mayor Pete. I mean, give me a break. Can you believe Mayor Pete? This is going to be the President of the United States?
 How would he be against negotiating against President Xi of China? We just made one hell of a deal. You’re going to see the numbers very soon, you know? One hell of a deal. They didn’t like those tariffs.
 Thanks to Republican leadership, America is winning again, and America, most importantly, is respected again, respected like never before. You know, for years, NATO has taken advantage of the United States. We protect Europe from Russia, and the numbers have been going down for many, many years, 15 years, 18 years. The numbers is like a roller coaster down.
 I went over, and I said “Folks, you got to pay your bills. You’re delinquent. You’re delinquent.” Then, they don’t like me. They say, “We like Obama better.” They should like Obama better. Obama would go in and say, “Thank you very much for coming. We appreciate it. Bye-bye, I’m going back to Washington. I’m going back. I’ll be violating the carbon footprint. I’m going to Hawaii to play golf.”
 I drive to play a round of golf at the course I own, it doesn’t even cost them anything. He flies to Hawaii, nobody cares. If I drive 20 minutes, it’s like, “Donald Trump is playing golf today. He violates the carbon footprint,” but just think of it. Think of where we’ve come. Think of where we’ve come.
 A great congressman from Tennessee, they have … It’s a great state. They have early voting, very early voting, probably the earliest. He said, “I don’t know. I just left Tennessee.” This was in November. This was the election, 2016. He said, “I just left this incredible state of mine, and I love that state. Sir, we’ve seen lines of people that didn’t vote before, because they never were inspired to vote,” and these are people that never voted.
 They had hats on, Trump. They have pins, on Trump, Trump, Trump, and Trump. They have the bands on, you know, like a Miss Universe, prom. It says, Trump Pence, and they’ve got buttons all over it. They’ve got shirts saying Trump and Trump Pence. I never saw anything like it. “If every state is like Tennessee, sir, I hate to tell you, you’re going to have one hell of a victory,” and that’s what happened, right? That’s happened.
 You did it. You did it, and I think we’re going to have bigger numbers, even bigger numbers, because I’ll tell you what, we’re a long way from the election. I think the crowds today are bigger than they were the day before the election last time. I really do.
 … sadly referred to, she of great Indian heritage. Remember, I used to say, “I have more Indian blood in me than she has, and I have none.” I turned out to be right. You look at what she’s doing, you look at what she’s saying, the lies, the deceit, the fraud, you see it all.
 We are going to do so great. It’s got to be something that’s going to be special. It’s going to be for the record books. The Evangelicals called some of the greatest pastors, ministers, preachers, and they just called today, five of the most respected people. They said things that were incredible. They said, “There’s never been anything like this in the church that they can …” Some of them have been doing it for 30, 40 years. They said, “We have never seen enthusiasm like we see for this President and for this Presidency, all of us, like we have right now.”
 The great Franklin Graham, Billy Graham’s son, Franklin Graham, a fantastic man. He said, “Two weeks ago, my father, Billy Graham voted for Donald Trump.” Nobody ever [inaudible 00:51:25] … He never said that before. Billy Graham wasn’t somebody that would vote and say he voted. Franklin Graham said Billy Graham, maybe the greatest of all, maybe the greatest of all time, he said “My father, Billy Graham,” who was very old at the time and in trouble, he was in trouble, he was not well, “he voted for Donald Trump.” What a great tribute that was to me. What a great tribute. Great family.
 Unemployment has reached the lowest level in over 51 years. African-American, Hispanic-American, and Asian-American unemployment have all reached the lowest rates ever, ever, ever recorded. Wages are rising fast. They’re going up very fast, and the biggest percentage increase, makes me happy, are for blue-collar workers. 40 million. Think of this, 40 million American families are now benefiting from the Republican child tax credit, each receiving an average of over $2,200 a year.
 Now, America lost … This is hard to believe, because you think, “How could it possibly be true?” but this is what happened. Probably, it’s the number one reason I’m running. America lost 60,000 factories under the previous administration, 60,000.
 You wouldn’t believe that it’s possible, but I know it’s true, because I’ve said it 50 times, and the fakers back there, they’ve never corrected me. No, it’s true. No, it’s true. If I were slightly off, if it were, if I was off by two factories, there’d be a headline, Donald Trump Told a Fib. Donald Trump gets to be a Pinocchio again.
 No. Think of it, 60,000 factories, plants and factories, closed, closed. They went to Mexico. They went to China. 60,000. It’s not even … Take a look at a map and put 60,000 little dots. I mean, you wouldn’t believe it could be that many, but it is, it’s 60,000 closed, gone. They’re all coming back. They’re all coming back.
 Right now, just in a very short period of time, we’ve added 12,000 brand new factories, and many more are coming in. One of the reasons they’re coming in is we’ve eliminated a record number of job- killing regulations, saving the average American household $3,000 a year. Total income gains for median households will reach over, ready? $10,000 a family. $10,000.
 Now, under the Bush administration, the $10,000, that includes what we’ve done in terms of median income. I’m adding in there the tax cuts, which are tremendous, $2,400. I’m adding the regulation cuts, I’m adding the whole package over $10,000. Now, under President Bush, it was $450. Under Barack Hussein Obama, it was $975. Under President Donald J. Trump, it’s $10,000 in three years, three.
 In three years. Don’t forget, President Bush, eight years, $450. President Obama, eight years, $975. President Trump, three years, not even, not even, not even, but three years, $10,000. We’re going up. We’re going up.
 We ended the last administration’s war on American energy and we ended the war on clean, beautiful coal. It’s being shipped to Vietnam, it’s being shipped all over the world. While every Democrat running for President wants to shut down our coal mines, we are putting our miners back to work. Indeed, we must [inaudible 00:55:56] …
 Clean coal. What they do with coal today is incredible, clean coal. With the help of energy workers right here in Ohio, the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world by far, number one. We were number one.
 Every top Democrat candidate has pledged to eliminate American production of oil and natural gas. How does that work [inaudible 00:55:56] …
 You know, there’s a state known as Texas, and I won Texas by a lot, just like I won Ohio by a lot. How would you like to go into Texas and say, “By the way, we don’t want your oil or natural gas anymore?”
 How about that Beto? Remember he said, “I was born to be President.” Anybody that says that, I said, “That’s the end of his career.” Remember, he had the cover of the magazine? I won’t mention the magazine, sleazebag magazine. He was born to be President, and right after that, he came tumbling down, but he’s from Texas, so he was against religion, he was against oil, and he was against guns.
 Abraham Lincoln could not win in Texas with that platform. That’s not a good platform. It’s not a good platform, but you have people that want to shut down the oil industry. If you do that, you’re going to shut down half your businesses. It’s really more than that, and the rest of them are not going to be able to pay because the cost of this energy would be so expensive. We have all forms of energy. We have every form of energy, and we are doing great, but they want to cripple your state’s economy. The voters of Ohio will never let that happen, never going to let it happen.
 Our air and our water right now is cleaner than it’s been in 40 years. Sadly, I can’t say historic because, you know, a couple of hundred years ago, there was nobody here, right? I assume that 2, 300 years ago was cleaner, probably. You never know, but our water and our air is as clean as it’s ever been, and I took us out of that horrible Paris accord.
 I always say, “How are you doing with the Paris accord?” Don’t ask. Saved trillions and trillions of dollars that was put in there to hurt us, in my opinion. It was put in there to hurt us. We were paying money to India. We were paying money to China. China’s didn’t kick in until 2030, we kicked in immediately. We had to pay money.
 Russia kicked in, in 20 … Let’s see, they kicked in before. They were 1990, wait, they were 1996. That was a very dirty period of air, so, they didn’t have … We kick in now, and that, it’s just unacceptable. We would have spent trillions and trillions of dollars. We would have had to close up, I think, at least 25% to 30% of our businesses. Who the hell would make a deal like that, right? Who would make a deal like that?
 No, how unfair. You look at Russia. You look at China. You look at India. They all got these massive breaks. We got no breaks, and we’re paying money. I say sometimes to France, “How are the yellow vests working out?” Because they don’t like raising their taxes and sending the money to faraway places that they’d never heard of. So, we are in good shape.
 It took a certain amount of courage to do that. I said I’m going to get killed on this one, and you know what? I did it, and I was applauded, because the people get it. The people know what we’re doing, and they’re tired of being ripped off by the rest of the world. They’re tired of being ripped off by the rest of the world.
 For decades, career politicians promised to defend the workers of Ohio, and then they went to Washington and voted for the same globalist policies that devastated your communities and chipped away your jobs. You know that. Better than anybody, Ohio knows that. The betrayal of Ohio workers and U.S. workers ended the day I took the oath of office, and you see that [inaudible 01:00:22] …
 I immediately canceled the Obama administration’s job-killing catastrophe, which would have dealt a death blow to the United States auto industry, the Transpacific Partnership. It was a disaster. That was going to be worse than NAFTA. NAFTA, I always say, the world’s worst deal. I think that would have been worse. It would have taken the car industry. It would have taken many of your industries. That was a setup for the United States to get fleeced.
 The USMCA will save the American auto industry, and create over 100,000 new auto jobs, and our factories will not be closing and moving to other faraway lands. We’ll keep them right here [inaudible 01:01:10] … That’s going to include, because we take care of our great auto workers of Toledo, the home of Jeep. How good is Jeep?
 I’ve taken the toughest-ever action against China’s chronic trade abuses, including tariffs on $370 billion worth of Chinese made goods, bringing billions and billions of dollars into our treasury. I gave some of that money, because they were targeted, to our farmers, and our farmers did just fine. Now, the deal is done, and the other deals are done, and the farmers are doing very well. We love our farmers, and they never complain. They never complain.
 You know, when they’d go, the fake news back there, they’d go and they’d talk-
 And when they come, the fake news back, they go and talk to the farmers. “What do you think of President Trump? China is deciding not to buy anymore of this.” You know what the farmers would say, “We’re going to have to suffer for a while because there’s China and there’s other nations have been ripping us off for years. The President is right and we’re with the President.” How great? How great?
 But our strong action paid off and we’ll sign that terrific and fully enforceable Phase One trade deal with China. And again, we’re keeping the tariffs on because we use that for other money. We are taking billions. Remember what I said? We’re not paying for it. Because China devalued their currency and then they put a lot of money into the pot. We’re not paying for it. And now they’re starting to say, “I guess he was right.” And our trade deficit, as a result, has come, has really come substantially down. It was just in the papers today. The trade deficit has come down. As a result of our actions, steel mills all across Ohio, you know this better than I do, are roaring back to life! JSW Steel is investing five hundred million dollars in Acero Junction. Republic Steel is reopening the Loraine Mill that they idled in 2016. Charter Steel is building a 150 million dollar mill in Cuyahoga Heights and Nucor is investing 85 million dollars at a facility in Marion, Ohio. Think of that. I think you do.
 The steel industry was dead and now it’s vibrant. All told, American steel companies are currently making 13 billion dollars worth of new investments all across our nation. Think of that. They weren’t investing 10 cents. The industry was dead. Now it’s vibrant. After years of rebuilding other nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation. We are finally putting America first!
 But while we are creating jobs and killing terrorists, the Washington Democrats are wasting America’s time with demented hoaxes and crazy witch hunts. Think of it. The day they came down that escalator it started. Who the hell else could they take in this stuff? Right? Can I get some credit for that? Most guys would have been in a corner with their thumb in their mouth saying, “Mommy, Mommy, take me home.” These are bad people. The Democrat politicians we’re fighting today are the same ones who took a sledgehammer to Ohio jobs in factories. They destroyed your factories. They destroyed your jobs. But they’re losing and we’re winning and America’s comeback continues full speed ahead.
 On no issue have Democrat politicians more clearly betrayed the American people than the issue of illegal immigration. Far left radical politicians support deadly sanctuary cities and demonstrated their contempt, scorn, and disdain for everyday Americans and the American family. These jurisdictions release dangerous violent criminal aliens out of their jails and directly onto your streets where they are free to rob, attack, and kill American citizens but stop it. They want open borders. Can you believe it? And because of Democrats’ open border policies, they want open borders. They want more people flowing. Come on in. Come on in. Innocent Americans are being brutalized and murdered by illegal alien criminals. As just one example right here in Ohio, you all know about it, an illegal alien went on a deadly crime spree, attempting to rape a 14-year-old girl. Then raping an murdering a 60-year old woman. Then shooting at a woman who took a shortcut through the park and was walking with her children. And finally the police came. We love our police. And they were able to apprehend this terrible criminal.
 Thanks to Democrat policies, MS-13 gang members… they’re the worst… were allowed to infiltrate the country. You know I called them animals and Nancy Pelosi said, “They’re not animals. They’re human beings.” Take a look at what’s happened to her district. Her district is one of the most disgusting dirty… it used to be one of the best in the country. Now it’s a disgrace what’s happened. Drug dealings all over the place. The homeless they’re not taking care of. Tents down major thoroughfares. What happened in San Francisco, in particular her district, and she lives in this beautiful house. But they turn all these arsonists out, including killing their victims with machetes, MS-13. They kill them with machetes. You know why? Because it’s more painful than using a gun.
 Federal authorities recently discovered and rounded up more than 25 MS-13 gang members in Central Ohio. And they will be sent to jail or frankly, I they hold them… I don’t know that they can hold them. They’re going to be sent the hell back home.
 Last year alone, ICE officers, who by the way are heroes. These are brave people. I don’t want to do it. You don’t want to do it. Let’s see, you can do it. You can do it. You can do it. Most of you wouldn’t. I mean, I’ve seen it. They have these people that are like killers. And now the guys are here. And they want to call them a safe place. And they run in and they’re swinging and punching. What the hell kind of a job is that? That’s what they do. They’re tough people. They’re great patriots. Who the hell wants to do it? They’re incredible, ICE. And they get scorned and we take out thousands and thousands of MS-13 members every single year. They throw them in the back of the van and we get them the hell out of our country.
 But ICE offices worked through Ohio police to remove one thousand two hundred dangerous criminal aliens from your streets. And on all your street, do you see the difference now between what it is now? We have a problem over there? Go ahead. Take your time. Take your time. Good, thank you. Great job. Thank you. Okay these people here, unlike you up there, these people have been waiting for three days so that they could be here. I don’t know. You know what? If I had to wait three days, I think I’d like your seat better. I like your seat.
 But Democrats stand for crime, corruption, and chaos. Republicans stand for law, order, and justice. That’s really the way it is. We side with law enforcement, with law abiding Americans, not law breaking criminal aliens. We are removing these illegal criminals and gang members from our country by the thousands. We are sending them home. And we will no let them back in. And I have to tell you, a lot of things are happening. You’re going to hear about that in two seconds. Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, illegal crossing are down 75% since May. We have ended catch and release. Catch and release, you know what catch and release is? We catch them. We take down their name and we release them. What kind of crap is that? These are the policies that we inherited. You catch somebody, take their name. Say “Please come back in three years.” Right? And we’re releasing them back to the community. And if you don’t do that everybody gets sued. Can you believe this? We have ended catch and release.
 The other one, beauty, how about that lottery? It’s called VISA lottery. How about this? They put their hand… these people are going to America. Bomb. I will not use names because I’ll be accused of something later. But from Honduras, what about it? El Salvador, we have… He’s good. Only in Ohio can that happen. Who’s the man that did that? Who is that? So anyway, but, in Honduras, Guatemala they have like this lottery. Now the people, I’ve gotten to know the government officials. They’re good. They’ve made some good things. They said, “Hey we need to take our people back.” They’re getting their people back. Before, they wouldn’t take them back. They’d send them here to go into our county. We’d bring them back under past administrations and then after that, they’d say, “We’re not taking them back. We’re not taking them back. Take them the hell our of here. We’re not letting you land your plane.” So we have the government flying the plane all over trying to get a couple prisoners, bad people back.
 Now they take them back. You know why? Because we said, “Look, if you don’t take them back, we’re going to put tariffs on every single thing you sell.” Now they say, “We’d love to take them back. We’d love to take them back. We’ll take them back gladly, sir.” No, they couldn’t get them back. We’d take off with these absolutely gang members an we’d bring them back and they wouldn’t accept them. We couldn’t land the plane. We couldn’t get anything through the border. It comes through the border this way, not that way. But now they take them back. They’ve been good actually. They’ve been very good. Now we paid them a lot of money. We paid them 500 million dollars a year. Can you believe we paid them 500 million through El Salvador? And I said, “Oh, there’s not going to be any money anymore because you’re not treating us right.” And they’ve been good. They’ve been great. They take them back. “How many would you like us to take? We’ll take as many as you want.”
 And here’s the big thing. Ready? You ready? Today in the newspapers in the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals we won’t the big big beautiful lawsuit when they were all suing us. The wall is being built. We built it. We built already a tremendous amount. But we’re releasing four million dollars of military construction funds to build the biggest section of the wall. It’s literally being signed now and will be under construction very shortly in couple of weeks. And we’ve already built over a 100 miles of wall. How about that? 100 miles. And by the end of next year, we’re going to have a lo more built. And it’s already having a big impact. How about that, Democrats? “Walls don’t work. We want technology.” I said, “What do you want to do?” They want drones. Oh, good. When people are rushing, the caravans, when they’re rushing, having a drone flying around is not going to help you do it. Okay?
 Nothing like… you know five years ago, the Democrats all wanted a wall. They just could never get I built. They didn’t know how the hell to build it. I do. So we built 100 miles. I think probably more than that now. We have a lot under contract. But we won our big case just… I woke up. They said, “Sir, we have good news. They overturned a horrible decision from the lower court. You can now fund the rest of the wall.” I said, “Thank you very much.” Thank you, Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals.
 But they want to have open borders. They want to have sanctuary cities. The radical Democrats have never been more extreme than they are right now. They are stone cold crazy. You know the [inaudible 01:15:10] have changed some. They want crime. They want gangs. I’m saying all this stuff and then I say, “Gee, now I sort of understand why they hate me.” Right? But it’s true. It’s true. Their policies are a disaster. They’re bad politicians and they’re horrible policies but what they do is they stick together and then they’re vicious. They’re vicious, horrible people. I didn’t say that. They’re horrible people. What they do to people is as disgrace but they stick together.
 Now the Republicans, thank you very much, the Republicans, my man, the Republicans, we were 196 to nothing in the House and I have feelings that it’s going to be great also. 196 to nothing and we took in three Democrats. And Congressmen, [inaudible 01:15:59] left their party and joined our party. But we’ve done things nobody’s ever done before. But the Democrats are taking their cues from socialist Bernie Sanders and that group. Omar, AOC, Talib. This is a jihadist woman, Talib. Talib. Boy, what a group but they’re the leaders of the party. They’re really my opinion dealers. That’s what happened. That’s how they got into this impeachment on this. The leaders of the party are… there’s AOC, Talib, and Omar. And Pelosi beats them but she shakes and quivers and she’s very soft. But you know who the leader of your party is? All of you. You. You’re the leader of your party.
 But the Democrats are pushing the socialist takeover of healthcare that would strip 180 million Americans of their private insurance plans and massively raise taxes on the middle class. A lot of you have private plans you love. They’re going to take them away from you. But see, I don’t like doing this too soon. I did it with Obama. I came up with this great plan. I came up with a lot of different stuff. I said [inaudible 01:17:26]. Everybody believed me. Then she went down. Then she started coming up and then he went down. It doesn’t help me to do it a year-and-a-half before the election. That’s why, like with the Green New Deal, okay? I want to say great things about it. Okay? I don’t want to knock it and then say, “Oh, we’re not going to use that.” I like it when they say, “You no longer can fly airplanes. No longer can you have any cows in meadows. Right? No longer can you do anything.” We can’t do anything anymore. The Green Deal, I love it. I think it’s great. It should be debated. It should be debated.
 So what we’re going to do very seriously, we’re not going to talk badly about that. We’re going to say the Green… they asked me about it the other day. A gentlemen just asked me about it back stage. I said, “You know, it’s something that has to be considered. In about two weeks before the election I’ll let you know the facts.” It just doesn’t matter. We’re too far ahead of the election. The Green New Deal, that’s a beauty. You know it’s amazing. There’s this congressman that’s been here. He has white hair, beautiful white hair. No, it’s not you. And he’s with AOC. And he’s saying, “Yes, we have to go with the Green New Deal.” I’m saying, “Is this guy for real?” I don’t know if he believes it. He’s been around for 20 years in Congress. I’ve seen him. I know him a little bit. And he’s acting like he actually believes it. But we’re going to just take our time and we’re going to relax. About three or four, usually the [inaudible 01:19:03] rally it’s a month before. You’ll get to hear the real facts. But I’m tired of talking about this 10 months before the election.
 Bernie Sanders healthcare plan would cost over 32 trillion dollars. It’s more money than they’ll make in five years. That’s more money than you’ll ever make. He’s, is he crazy? No, no, oh let me take that back. No, it’s a great plan. We have to consider it. We have to consider his plan strongly. Now see, I’ll tell you what fake news will do. They’ll take my last words, “It’s a great plan. We have to consider it strongly.” They’ll cut everything out in front and they’ll say, “Donald Trump is in favor of Bernie Sanders’ [renew camp 01:19:40]. They can do more with the tape than they can do with a newspaper. No, they’ll do it. You’ll see it. Somewhere you’ll see it, “Trump supports his plan.” They are sick.
 Republicans will defend middle class taxpayers and the right to keep the doctor of your choice. We will protect patients with pre-existing conditions. And we will protect your pre-existing physician. You’ll have your physician. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb, right up until the moment of birth. That is why I have asked Congress to prohibit late-term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.
 Radical Democrats now have a party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption. The Republican Party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and the party of the American dream. We still have the American dream.
 As of today, we’ve appointed 187 fellow judges to interpret the Constitution as written. Think about it. And two great Supreme Court Justices. Think of that, 187 federal and court of appeals judges. Think of that. Thank you, President Obama. He gave us 142 judges. Thank you. Thank you very much, President Obama. We have a record. It’s a record and we will appoint many more. But we, first day, 142 judges, 142 is how many we had. “Sir, you have 142.” I said, “You’ve got to be kidding.” I thought they’d say maybe none, maybe one, but certainly no more than one. They’re like gold. They said, “No, sir, you have 142.” I said, “You’ve got to be kidding. How did this happen?” President Obama, President Obama did not get that done. And by the way Mitch helped a lot [inaudible 01:22:54]. Mitch helped a lot. He helped a lot. It wasn’t so easy. Mitch McConnell.
 We’re aggressively combating the opioid epidemic and it’s bad. In 2018, drug overdose deaths in Ohio fell by… listen to this… 22%. That’s not good enough but credit to opioid.
 And as we continue rebuilding our military, we have the star legendary Army tank factory in Lima. And we’ve authorized 441 new striker fighting combat vehicles and 453 new Abrams tanks to be built in the Buckeye State. That’s a lot of tanks.
 So wait, just a quick story. Okay? I’m proud of this. So they had this Army tank plant, right, in Lima. And I said “What’s going on?” “They’re closing it.” “Oh.” “They’re closing. They’re closing everything.” When I came they wanted to close everything. So I was president-elect I think right around at that time. And I went to Lima and went through the factory where they make these trucks, the plant. And they make the tanks. They make all of these Army vehicle. And I said, “These people are amazing. You could never close this. You could never re-open it again.” They’d been doing this for many many decades and this factory was incredible. And I looked at the tanks they made. They’re the best in the world by Abrams. They’re the best in the world. I said, “Wait a minute. If you close this, we’re not going to be… where are you going to build tanks? This is the primary factory in the whole country. I think it might be the only factory in the whole country.”
 So they didn’t close. They said, “What are we going to do? Stay open for [inaudible 01:24:18]?” “Please send us 200 tanks.” “We don’t want to send you any tanks because we’re going to kick your ass.” We’re going to make our own tanks. Right? We’ve got to make our own tanks. So I did something, based on my instinct because instinct sometimes works better than anything else. Based on my instinct, I said, ” You can’t close this plant.” I went through that plant. I spent two, three hours talking to people who worked there. I looked at some of the hydraulic and I’m, I love all in the world, tractors, all of that stuff. I know a lot about it. And I looked at the carvings. I looked at the metal. I looked at how perfect everything was that turns around. How perfect it fit. They put it on and it would fit like within 1/100th of an inch. And I said, “You’re not going to be able to do this anyplace else.” I said, “And we’re going to be expanding our military. We’re going to be rebuilding. Who the hell’s going to make our tanks if you close?” I said, “Keep it open.”
 I actually, it was all closed. Is there anybody from Lima? Is that a true story? Right? It was closed. They announced it was closed. It was all set to close. I said, “You can’t close this plant.” And now look, the numbers I just gave you. We’re making almost 500 new tanks. You could’ve never reopened a place like that. It’s incredible. And you could’ve never gotten those workers. They’re really skilled people and if you did it would cost you billions and billions of dollars to do it. It wouldn’t have been as good as we have. So that was something I did that I’m very proud of because I really over-rode a lot of talented people that wanted it to close.
 I recognized Israel’s true capitol and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. And we further recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, 52 years.
 For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Now you have a President who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the great people of Ohio. And saying our present battle is the survival of the American nation. If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for, and fought so hard to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in 2020. We have to win. You know, we have to win. Because all of these things that we’ve done can be undone. And you can have a country that goes to hell very very fast, very very fast.
 Only in this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all. And I have seen that dirty rotten swamp better than anybody else in America. A lot of crooked people, disgusting crooked people. With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration. We will enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase Made in the U.S.A. We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America. Nobody knew that. It could’ve been done long before I got here. They had the technology. But we’re ending the AIDS epidemic in America within 10 years. Isn’t that amazing? Whoever thought that was possible? Who would have thought that’s possible?
 We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. And above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one big beautiful America. We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. And we will always live by the words of our national motto, “In God We Trust.”
 We stand on the shoulders of generations of Ohio patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. From Cleveland to Cincinnati, from Dublin to Dayton, and from Columbus to Toledo, this state is the home of proud families and farmers, and miners, and manufacturers, and aviators, and astronauts. Ohio is where the Wright Brothers invented the airplane and where Annie Oakley got her gun. Ohio is the state that gave us American legends and American heroes like Thomas Edison, Neil Armstrong, and the great John Glenn. Ohio is the place where strong American workers mined coal, worked the railroads, and forged the steel that made America into the greatest most powerful nation in the history of the world. And we are making it greater than ever before.
 Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of Ohio, the best is yet to come. Because together, we will make American wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Toledo. Thank you.
 Thank you very much and thank you to the original Lee Greenwood. Thank you. Thank you, Lee. Great guy. Well, I just want to say a very big hello, Kentucky? Great place. It’s great to be here in the home of a group called the Wildcats. You ever hear the Kentucky Wildcats? By the way, they play at a very big arena. This place. Look at this. Hello, up there? This is incredible. With thousands of proud, hardworking, freedom-loving American patriots, which is what you are. What you are.
 Tomorrow, the people of Kentucky will head to the polls and you will vote to reelect your terrific Republican governor, Matt Bevin. He’s done a fantastic job. He’s done a fantastic job. And we’re sending a signal by doing that to the rest of the country, to the rest of the world, that the republican party, you know what we stand for. But you see what’s happening with the Democrats, they have gone crazy. The do nothing Democrats, and they’re not getting it done. Under Republican leadership, the economy is booming, wages are rising, confidence is soaring. Kentucky is thriving like never ever before, and America is stronger than ever before. True.
 Kentucky’s unemployment rate has reached the lowest point in the history of our country. That’s not bad. And I want to just tell you that you have incredible representatives, and the job that Matt Bevin has done as governor, he’s had to do some things that you had to do. And he’s done unbelievably well. It sets you up to be a rocket ship in the future. You had to do it. So I just want to thank him for having the courage to do what he had to do. You have the best numbers you’ve ever had in the history of the state. And with the help of your Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, we have confirmed 157 judges to follow the constitution as written. We’re supporting our police, we’re rebuilding our military, we’re defeating radical Islamic terrorists like never before. The monsters animal known as Al-Baghdadi is dead. And the man that took his place is dead also. American Special Forces gave the world’s number one terrorist a one way ticket to hell. No enemy on earth stands a chance against the awesome power of the United States military, which is now stronger than ever before. We’ve rebuilt it and it was all made in America. All made in America. And our country is winning again, and our country is highly respected again.
 But while we are creating jobs and killing terrorists, the radical democrats are going totally insane. They want to obliterate the rule of law, drive out faith from the public square, and you know this, silence you online, confiscate your guns. You better be careful. The Second Amendment very, very important, very precious. They are after your Second Amendment. With us, nobody’s touching our Second Amendment. And that includes the gentleman that’s running against Matt. They’re after your Second Amendment. We can’t let that happen. They want to indoctrinate your children, you know this, destroy anyone who calls traditional America American values. All you have to do is ask the boys from Covington Catholic High School. Some of whom are here tonight.
 The far left wants to impose their authoritarian ideology on the nation, telling you what to think, what to believe and how you should live. They want to erase our traditions, our culture, our history, and our heroes. They want to subjugate you and break you to their will, but Kentucky will never be broken. Kentucky can’t be broken. You’re too strong and you’re too smart. In their craze thirst for power, the democrats are trying to tear our country apart. First, Democrats engineer the Russia hoax, the most egregious fraud ever foisted upon the American people, the Russian hoax. Then they did the Mueller scam. You remember that? The Mueller scam. Two years and they said nothing. And then Mr. Mueller testified. That was a wonderful day for me.
 You remember last week. I don’t know Tulsi Gabbard, but Hillary Clinton said that Tulsi Gabbard is a Russian agent. I don’t know Jill Stein. She’s a Greenie and that’s fine. She’s a Greenie, Jill Stein. But Jill Stein was an agent of Russia also. These people are crazy. Now corrupt politicians, Nancy Pelosi and Adam Schiff, they are corrupt. And Nancy, unlike Kentucky, which is doing great, Nancy ought stop wasting time, go back to her district in San Francisco, help the homeless, get rid of the drugs, get rid of the needles that are lying all over the street, and all of the things that are washing into the ocean through their storm sewer system. What’s happened is San Francisco and what’s happened to so many other places run by the radical left Democrats, it’s unbelievable.
 Los Angeles. You take a look at Los Angeles, looks like a third world city. But go back to Nancy’s area, look at what’s happened. There’s been no place in the country that’s gone down like the area that Nancy Pelosi represents. And she’s wasting all of her time. And you know what, it’s backfiring. You see it. But the media and the democrats have launched an even more brazen assault on our nation, with a deranged hyperpartisan impeachment witch-hunt. Impeachment. Think of it. So today, we just hit the highest number in the history of the stock market. Now, that’s hundreds of days.
 So last week, think of this, in the history of our country, it’s never done better. And by the way, that’s not rich, that’s not poor, that’s for everybody. Your 401(k)s, how you are doing? Pretty good, right? Pretty good. People tell me that their wives, their husbands, all of a sudden, they’ve been running the 401(k)s for years. And they totally lost respect for let’s say, the husband, totally lost respect. Now they think he’s a financial genius because he’s up 74%. She says, darling, I love you. You are the most incredible, brilliant financial mind. And you know what, if the Democrats get in, that’s not going down by 50%, that’s going down to nothing. It’s going to be worthless. It’s going to be worthless.
 You’ll have a depression the likes of which you’ve never seen. Mark my words. But hopefully, we don’t have to even think about it. And that was going to happen here. When we took over, that was going down in the wrong direction. And don’t forget, that was zero interest. We’re paying interest. In other words, people are now getting interest in their money. But that was with zero interest, real easy with zero interest. Last week, the democrats voted to try and nullify the balance of 10s of millions of Americans. To be exact 63 million people, disgracing themselves and bringing shame upon the House of Representatives.
 They’ve been plotting to overthrow the election since the first hour that we won. And actually, before we won, they were plotting to overthrow this election. Before we won. 19 minutes after I took the oath of office, that disgusting Washington Post, look at all these people back there, look. Fake news media. It’s the fake news. Look at all of them. What they don’t know is that when we hang it up in 5 years or 9 years, or 13 years, or maybe 17 years, or maybe if I still have the strength, 21 years. See, now they’re going crazy. Now they’re saying, see, I told you, he was a dictator. He wants to take charge in control of our country. These people are crazy.
 You have one nut job on television. He’s sitting down doing an interview recently. And he looks at the person he’s interviewing and he goes like he’s in total depression. Total depression. And he goes … Good fans up there. Thank you. He goes, you know he’s going to win, don’t you? You know, he’s going to win. Like [Devon 00:13:41] said. The guy goes, well, we’re going to fight and we’re going to … No, no. He’s going to win. You know he’s never leaving office, don’t you? He’s never going to leave office. These people are crazy. They’re crazy.
 But that disgusting newspaper that’s right there, The Washington Post, declared the campaign to impeach President Trump has just begun. All right, you can get them out. Be gentle, be gentle. Be very gentle. You know every time I say, get them out of here, I end up getting sued. They say, he hurt my arm. All right. So be very gentle, please. I don’t want to get sued. Be very gentle. Very, very gentle. He’s going home to mom. Thank you. By the way, do we love our law enforcement? And in the whole world, even on a Monday Night, I like the Monday Nights because I think we’re 58 and 0, that’s a good record. Even for the Wildcats, that’s a good. We’re 58 and 0, but even on a Monday Night, is there anything cooler than being at a Trump rally? Nothing can. With last week’s vote, the far left has declared war on American democracy itself. These people are lunatics. In the face of these attacks, Republicans are the most unified that I’ve ever seen, and I’ve been watching them and been a big part of them for a long time. And the democrats have never witnessed anything like it, and they know they’re not going to win in 2020. So let’s see what can we do to win, but that’s not working too well. You’ll see. The American people are fed up with Democrat lies, hoaxes, slander. The Democrats outrageous conduct has created an angry majority that will vote the do nothing democrats the hell out of office soon. Tomorrow, Kentucky has a chance to send the radical Democrats a message. You will vote to reject Democrats extremism, socialism and corruption, and you will vote to reelect Kentucky Governor Matt Bevin who’s done a great job. Matt’s a veteran. He’s a patriot. He’s done it all. He’s been a very, very successful business leader. He put his whole life at stake to help this state and the job he’s done is incredible. Under his leadership, Kentucky has created over 57,000 new jobs, but I helped also. We work together. Now, he is difficult. I have to say, you know, maybe because of the election, but it’s okay.
 Look, he’s such a pain, when he needs something for Kentucky like money, like aid, like, he wants me to call one of the many manufacturers now that are coming into Kentucky. Could you call the head of Some company in Japan, please? I say, “Matt, do I have to do it?” Please, please. But isn’t that really what you wanted in a governor? That’s what you want. He’s such a pain in the ass, but that’s what you want. And the job he’s done, one of the best in the country. Not the best. He’s been incredible. Matt is strong on crime and tough on illegal immigration. Thank you. He’s pro-worker, pro-life and 100% Pro-Second Amendment.
 By the way, you’re going to lose your Second Amendment if you vote in Democrats. You think I’m kidding? I see what they’re saying. I watch what they’re doing. They’re calling me all the time. You will lose your Second Amendment as soon … I’m telling you. As sure as you’re standing here, is anybody sitting? Nobody ever sits. You can sit if you want. No, just stand. You know what they say in the fake news? Look, you’ve been standing. Nobody sat? I don’t know. Isn’t that exciting? Nobody sat. You know what they say? No, you know what they say? They say, Trump only got one standing ovation. Because they stood at the beginning and they never sat down, but they don’t say the second part. It’s great. Great spirit.
 You know why? You love our country. And you see what’s happening. We have turned this big monster ship. We have turned it around. And we need so badly. You know, it’s like you plant a tree. It takes a lot. We have to get those roots to hold. We have the best unemployment numbers in the history of our country, so many things. So many things. The best employment numbers, we have the best of everything. And I think I’m going to count but I think it’s like 118. I told you, we have a record stock market today. I think about 100 … I’m going to have to check it. Because you know with the fake news, if I’m off by half a point. If it’s 117 and not 118, even if I go under, they report it. They say, he didn’t tell the truth. It was really 119. But like a lot, over 100, where we had the highest stock market in our history. Think of that. That’s incredible.
 But Matt Bevin has made record investments in education spending for Kentucky students. Education is so important to him. Matt Bevin will defend your Kentucky values. He loves his state. From an all out assault being waged on you from the extreme left. Not good. I can’t even imagine, how can you vote for somebody from the extreme left? This guy, Beshear, is a major lefty. You know that, right? Why are we even … Let’s just have a good time. Are you sure we need an election tomorrow, Matt? I don’t know. How does Kentucky vote for a person … I’m telling you, he will always vote for Pelosi and Schumer and shifty Schiff.
 How about this guy? How about Schiff. He makes up a conversation. He gets up before the United States Congress. He repeats my conversation with the head of the Ukraine, the new president, a good guy, repeats it. I said, “I never said that.” He made a horrible statement. It was a total lie. And then I actually wanted to release the actual conversation. And you haven’t heard about the whistleblower after that, have you? Because the whistleblower said lots of things that were so good folks, you’re going to find out. But these are very dishonest people, shifty Schiff. But Matt’s running against these people, and we have to send them a sign because they’re dangerous.
 The radical left named Andy Beshear, who rejects everything Kentucky stands for. That’s who they want to win. Beshear has openly pledged to stop the policies of Donald Trump. What are the policies? Take care of our vets, take care of our military. We want jobs. We want companies to stop leaving us. They’re not leaving anymore. You see, companies aren’t leaving anymore. Have you noticed? Remember years ago before I ever thought of doing this? I mean, when I said let’s do this, I said to our great now first lady. I said, “Melania, let’s give it a shot.” And then, one by one, we were doing good.
 And what we’ve done, if you remember before we ran, companies were leaving Kentucky, they were leaving, they will go into Mexico. They were going to China, Japan. They were going all over. Any place but Kentucky. You don’t read about that at all. Now they’re all coming back. They’re all coming back. But Beshear wants to shut down your coal, shut down your energy, raise your taxes, and take a giant wrecking ball to the greatest economy in the history of the state of Kentucky. The greatest economy you’ve ever had, he’s going to destroy it. And it won’t be long. It’ll go very quickly. You know, you’re all sitting there. Everybody has good jobs. You don’t like it, you go find another job. It’s like the choice I got from military.
 I got you choice too. If you don’t like your job, you find another one. You tell the boss, I am getting out of here, I don’t like this guy. You go get a better job for more money. Beshear doesn’t represent you. He represents the Washington swamp and he’s backed by the same people trying to overthrow the last election. Beshear supported crooked Hillary Clinton, and he’s funded by the pro-abortion lobby and open borders fanatics. Open borders, let everyone pour right in. Let them all pour right in. Beshear wants to bring sanctuary cities to Kentucky, think of that one. Releasing violent criminals and aliens to terrorize innocent Kentucky families. He wants sanctuary cities. He hasn’t learned what’s happened.
 We had a great election a couple of weeks ago in North Carolina. We won two house seats. We were supposed to lose, probably both of them. We won them by a lot. We won them by a lot. And I think we won them because of the Second Amendment, because it’s under assault from Democrats. But I think we won also because of sanctuary cities. Because of bad news came out of sanctuary cities, really bad. And I think that was the reason we won both house seats by a lot. Beshear is too liberal, too extreme and too dangerous for the state of Kentucky. Tomorrow, everybody needs to vote, Republican. We got to go Republican all the way. I want to bring up a man, and I’m serious about this. This guy works so hard. He’s a great natural talent in business, which you needed. And he straightened it out. And I’ll tell you what, he will be one of the truly greats in the history and maybe the greatest in the history of this state. Matt Bevin, come on up Matt.
 How do you like having President Trump in Rupp Arena? This is better than the Final Four. I’ll tell you what, in terms of energy, this is extraordinary. Thank you, Kentucky. It is critical that we go top to bottom, run the slate, vote straight Republican, but do your civic duty. Let’s get out and vote. Let’s send a message to Washington, to the other states, to the United States of America that Kentucky is leading the way and that we support the President of the United States, …
 And that we support the President of the United States, Donald J. Trump.
 So we’re also joined tonight by a very powerful man in Washington, your great Senator Mitch McConnell. Nobody works harder for Kentucky than Mitch. I will tell you, nobody works harder, and frankly, maybe more importantly, nobody works smarter. It’s up here. I know a lot of people that work hard. He works smart. When the Democrat arsonists in Washington tried to destroy an innocent man named Brett Kavanaugh, now Justice Brett Kavanaugh, Mitch refused to cave to the left wing mob. And that’s what it was, it was a mob. There has never been a man treated so badly in Washington as Judge Kavanaugh, previously Judge, now Justice. We got him in, and he’s been great, and he will be great.
 Mitch confirmed two tremendous Supreme court justices. Mitch helped deliver the largest ever investment in our military and pass VA choice and VA accountability for our amazing veterans. Now, I know Mitch’s opponent because they came here. Do you remember last year? Slightly different location, and that’s okay, it was still the great state of Kentucky. Because Andy Barr had Amy McGrath, an extreme liberal against him. Andy Barr is here with us tonight, and we’re going to introduce him, but he beat her. So she said to herself, “Well, you know, I failed in Congress, now let’s go for the Senate.” She wanted to go to the House, now she wants to go. It’s not going to work that way. Extreme liberal, anti-gun, lots of different things.
 Amy McGrath compared my election, think of this one … It’s so insulting. I shouldn’t say it. Should I say it? Yeah, why not. No, it’s so insulting. You know, you work so hard, you love your country so much, and they get up to say things. She compared it to 9/11, a slander upon our nation.
 She wants open borders. She supports the impeachment hoax witch hunt like nobody. She wants to get rid of it. She wasn’t too happy with me last year. We came in, Andy, and we did a job on her, and this is going to be easy. She was caught telling donors, Democrats, that she is further left than anyone in the history of the State of Kentucky. Is that what you want? It’s not what you want. So next November, the state needs to defend its values and vote for a rock-ribbed Kentucky conservative, Mitch McConnell. But we’re going to get back to that later. We’ll be back many times. We’ll be back here many times. Mitch. Where is he?
 Thank you. Well thank you, Mr. President, for making America great again. And Matt Bevin is making Kentucky great again thanks to your help tonight. And working together, we’re changing the federal courts forever. Nobody’s done more to change the court system in the history of our country than Donald Trump. Mr. President, we’re going to keep on doing it. My motto is leave no vacancy behind.
 So President Obama left Mitch, and me, and Rand, and all of us, he left 142 openings for judges. You’re not supposed to allow any. You don’t do that. You know, they say the most important thing a president can do is federal judges, right? Including the Supreme Court, obviously. I came in and I said, “How many do we have?” They said, “How many what, sir?” I said, “Judge openings.” And I thought they’d say none, or one or two. He said, “Sir, we have 142.” I said, “What?” I said, “Tell me again.” He said, “We have 142.” So Mitch and I and Rand would like to thank very much President Obama, because nobody ever been so generous in their life. Also with us tonight is a great warrior and a great guy, smart, strong, loves your state, and he’s really become a good friend of mine. And I’ll tell you, he’s a little bit different. It’s okay. But whenever I’ve needed him, whenever I needed him, he was always there. It’s true. I mean, sometimes like I’d say, ” I don’t need you to vote, Rand.” “Good.” And he’ll vote his own way. He’s got that little libertarian touch. That’s okay. That’s okay. But whenever we need, and I’m not talking about me, I’m talking about we, we need a vote, he’s so incredible and he’s become a really good friend. I want to have him come up for a second. Rand Paul, your Senator, a great warrior.
 President Trump has great courage. He faces down the fake media every day. But Congress needs to step up and have equal courage to defend the President. Hunter Biden made $50,000 a month. That’s the definition of corruption. We know he got it only because of his family connections. We also now know the name of the whistleblower. The whistleblower needs to come before Congress as a material witness because he worked for Joe Biden at the same time Hunter Biden was getting money from corrupt oligarchs. I say tonight to the media, do your job and print his name!
 And I say this to my fellow colleagues in Congress, to every Republican in Washington, step up and subpoena Hunter Biden, and subpoena the whistleblower. And I say to my colleagues, if Shifty Schiff will not let Hunter Biden come, and if he will not bring the whistleblower forward, every Republican in Congress should take a walk and say, “This is a farce.”
 Wow, that was excellent. Whoa. Wow, thank you. Thank you very much, Rand. Great job. He’s a warrior. He’s a warrior, I’ve always said it. Also with us tonight are representatives from your state that are fantastic, a couple from outside your state, but we’ll welcome them also, right? But these are also great fighters, great warriors. Hal Rogers. Thank you, Hal. Brett Guthrie. Thank you, Brett. Thomas Massey. Man we just spoke about won a great grace, Andy Barr. James Comer. James, great.
 And from an incredible state that we won 2016 that Crooked Hillary said she’s going to win that state, didn’t come too close at winning that state. It’s a great state, and we love the people of North Carolina. Congressman Mark Meadows. Along with some of your local great politicians, and a person that’s done a really spectacular job.
 You know, in Michigan, a woman, she just kept going, she just kept going. Reminded me, by the way, of your governor, from the standpoint she never quit. Now, Republicans hadn’t won Michigan in many, many years. She called, “Could you come again? Could you do it again? Could you come make another speech, please?” I said, “All right, this is the last one.” “No, no, no. How about a couple of more?” And then Bill Clinton actually told Hillary Clinton, “You better get going, something’s going on in Michigan. You’re going to lose Michigan. You better start going.” “No, no, no. The polls say everything’s good.” And we won the great State of Michigan for the first time in many years. And I said, when it came time to picking the Republican Party Chair, head of the RNC, I said, I got to get the woman from Michigan, Ronna McDaniel, to head it up.
 And when they were saying how sophisticated Hillary Clinton’s campaign was … You know, we’re not sophisticated, right? I don’t think so. Remember all during the … “Well, she’s got the finest computer technology in the world.” Yeah, she paid for it, but she didn’t get it. “She has really fantastic geniuses.” But I had somebody that was a lot better than the people that she had. His name was Brad Parscale, and he’s here with us. Campaign Manager. Doing a great job. And our numbers are looking very good.
 But think of it, we’re one day short of a year now. Can you believe it? Less than a year. It begins November 3rd this time. We had that great, great date, oh boy, November 8th remember? Was there ever a day like that in television history? And they have no idea, because when we do hang it up, they’re all out of business. They know that. That’s why I think that we will get … I expect to get a full, hearty, unbelievable endorsement very soon from the failing New York Times, and from the Amazon Washington Post.
 You know, before the election started, about a month before I announced that I was going to do this, I said, “I’m going to become a politician. I can’t believe it. I’m going to become a politician.” But I looked at the New York Times, and it was like a little leaflet that you hand out at a grocery store, right? The wind would blow it away. It was dead. I call it the failing New York Times only because eventually it will fail. But we built it up. They do stories … In my entire life, I had a few stories on the front page of the New York Times, and now if I have three or four a day, it’s like, “Why are they not covering me anymore?” And they’re all bad.
 They can take what we did two weeks ago with the number one terrorist in the world, and they make it look as bad as possible. In fact, I love dogs, but they gave the dog full credit. They didn’t give me any credit. That’s okay. The dog got the credit, and the dog will be coming very shortly, by the way, to the White House.
 But they’ll be endorsing us. And you know, all of these crazy, like CNN with its bad ratings, there goes its red light, it just went off. Their red light just went off. See how it is? Well, it’s hard. Look, put yourself in their position. They have it on, their covering, and now they know they’re ready to get hit, so they turn it off. I mean, I can’t blame them. Their red light just went off. No, but put yourself in CNN’s position. Without us … You know, cable was not supposed to be a good business, then we came along. It’s not me, it’s we. They came from the valleys, they came from everywhere, the cities, they came from places, they’re still trying to figure out, “Where the hell did all those people come from?” It’s true.
 A great Senator from Tennessee, they have early voting, and I was in Pennsylvania making a speech, and he saw me because he had a couple of great Congressman friends from Pennsylvania, and he said, “You know, in Tennessee we have very early voting, and I just left, and I’ve been doing this for 24 years. And I got to be honest with you, I’ve never seen so many people vote.” And these are people, they love our country, they’re incredible, they work hard, but they never liked what they were voting for, so they really wouldn’t vote. Sounds terrible. But they didn’t like anything that they saw.
 They say, “Sir, I’m seeing people,” and he said this, “come out from the valleys, come out from the mountains, come out from areas that they’ve never come out. We have lines that are five blocks long at every voting booth and parlor.” He said, “I can’t speak for the rest of the country, but if the rest of the countries like Tennessee, you’re going to have the greatest victory in the history of our nation.” And that’s what happened. That was a great statement. That was a great statement from people from a great state, also.
 Tomorrow you must elect the entire Republican ticket, from governor on down, including your next Lieutenant Governor, Ralph Alvarado. Ralph Alvarado. Great, Ralph. You’re a good man. And your next Attorney General, Daniel Cameron. Should I bring Daniel up? Get up here, Daniel, come on. Here’s a star. Here’s a star.
 Mr. President, I hope you can tell that Kentucky is Trump country. We are proud to stand with you on pro-life issues, and here in the Commonwealth, we are going to stand up for those who cannot speak for themselves. And Mr. President, we are going to stand with you in protecting the Second Amendment rights of all Kentuckians. And Mr. President, I make a personal commitment to you as the next Attorney General, we are going to make sure that Kentucky is never a sanctuary state.
 Good. That’s good. Thank you, Daniel. Thank you, Daniel. Star. A star is born. A star is born. Did you ever see that movie, A Star is Born? Thank you, Daniel. Great. You’re next Secretary of State, Michael Adams. Thanks, Michael. Auditor, Mark Harmon. Thank you, Mark. Treasurer, Allison Ball. She’s doing great. And Agriculture Commissioner, Ryan Quarles.
 With the help of everyone here, America is the hottest economy anywhere in the world, by far. Foreign leaders come in to see me, “Congratulations on your economy.” China’s doing poorly, as you know, but they’re paying us billions, and billions, and billions of dollars, and they’ve never given us 10 cents before. Billions of dollars. They gave a lot of that money to our farmers, who got targeted, but no longer. They’re back buying from our farmers.
 But we’ve created 6.7 million new jobs since the election. And if I would have ever said that during the campaign, the fake news back there would have never let me hear the end of it. Think of that, 6.7. And today, just today, a record, 158 million Americans are now employed, the highest level of employment in our country’s history. African American unemployment just dropped to the lowest level ever recorded in the history of our country. Hispanic American and Asian American unemployment rates have also reached the all time historic lows. The history of our country. Hourly earnings, listen to this, are up 9% since the election. Nobody ever thought that was going to be happening. Under the previous two administrations, we lost 60,000 factories. I thought that was a typo. I said, “How the hell can you lose 60,000?” It turned out to be right. And you know how I know? Because I’ve been saying it for two years, and they never corrected me. It’s true, two years.
 I get a call sometimes from the people in the campaign, “Sir! Sir, we have an emergency.” “What’s the emergency?” “Somebody’s calling from the media, the fake news. Did you put a comma in the wrong location, sir? Because they consider it to be a front page story.” Okay.
 Under my administration, we’ve added nearly 10,000 new factories and many, many more thousands of factories are coming into our country. We reversed it. To get relief to working families, we passed massive tax cuts, massive. To lift up distressed communities, our tax law created opportunity zones. Tim Scott of South Carolina was so involved, including 144 designated by your great governor. By the way, the other governor. I don’t think … Well, I don’t know. You know? He’s not going to do so well. He’ll be calling for a meeting, and I won’t be able to see him because I don’t like him very much. But I like this one very much, and we’re going to help him.
 We slashed a record number of job-killing regulations. We ended the war on American energy. We’re now the largest producer of energy anywhere in the world. And we ended the war on beautiful clean coal. I announced the withdrawal of the United States from the horrible, costly, one-sided Paris Climate Accord. Ask them how they’re doing in Paris with it. Not too good. I canceled the so called Clean Power Plan, and repealed Obama’s federal coal moratorium. We’re putting our great miners back to work.
 On trade, we’re starting to set records every week, we’re reversing decades of Washington disloyalty, stupidity, and corruption. Past administrations did nothing as China looted our factories, and stole up to $500 billion of American dollars. By the way, people can’t even believe it. Not 500 million. That’s a lot. If you lost 500 million, that’s a lot. I thought that was another typo. $500 billion they would take a year from us. We rebuilt China. And I give them a lot of credit, by the way, I give China. What I don’t give credit to is Obama and past administrations beyond Obama, I don’t give them credit because they let it happen. They should have never let it happen. But now we’re taking in tens of billions, and billions, and billions of dollars.
 Just recently, very slow, Slippy Joe … Biden that is, said of China’s piracy and plunder, “They’re not that bad, folks.” He always used the word folks. I watched him today, he used the word folks. “Hi folks. Hi. Hi, My time is up. I got to leave.” No, they have him all freaked out because he makes a mistake every time he speaks. So I can just see these handlers, because they’re handlers, like they use on horses, they’re handlers, right? “All right, get him off now. He’s been up there long enough.” So they’re screaming, “Get off, get off! Sleepy Joe, get off the stage, please. Please Joe, you’re doing fine. Joe, you’re doing fine. You’re doing fine.” And then he goes, “I love being in Ohio,” but he was in Iowa yesterday. Yes sir. And they say, “Dammit, he should have left sooner, we told him. Get off the stage, Sleepy Joe. Sleepy Joe, get off the damn stage.”
 But he said about, Sleepy Joe, about China, “They’re not that bad, folks. They’re not really competition for us. No, they’re not.” 500 billion a year, right? He did nothing in eight years, him and Obama. In fact, I’m here because of them, when you think about it. Right? Just thinking. I’m here because of them. Kellyanne Conway, stand up, Kellyanne. Stand up. Another warrior. I just saw Kellyanne. I said stand up. No, but think of it, as somebody saying that.
 Now look, $1.5 billion that Hunter, who got thrown out of the Navy, who had no experience, who had not anything, got a lot of money from Ukraine, but he got 1.5 billion from China, I got to tell you, I’ve been negotiating with China, they’re very tough.
 China. I got to tell you, I’ve been negotiating with China. They’re very tough. That is not the same group of Chinese people that I’ve been negotiating with. They gave him 1.5 billion. He’ll make millions and millions with that. And how about saying, by the way, Mr. President, would you please take over the negotiations that President Trump is no longer handling? Guess what? You would be sold down the tubes so fast, and we’re so close. China wants to make a deal so badly. I think they’d love to see another president. They would like to see another president more than crooked Hillary would, okay. Can you imagine if they ever took over negotiations of this deal, which is going to be one of the greatest deals ever made. Has to be, because we started down here and they were up there. Has to be. Can you imagine if they ever took over negotiations? This is what China would love more than anything else. It’s not going to happen folks, because we can’t let our country go back to hell. We can’t do it. We can’t let it happen.
 Because the Bidens got rich while America was robbed, and let me tell you the fake news will not put it in. I watched the last debate, and this weakling named Anderson Cooper saying, well, it’s totally unsubstantiated, Mr. Biden, solely answer. What’s unsubstantiated? He is on tape doing a real quid pro quo. Sure, it’s totally unsubstantiated, sir. I’ve never seen anything like it. Could you imagine if I did what he did? Could you imagine if Don Jr. or Eric Trump walked out of China while I was, let’s say, vice president or president. Let’s say they walked out of China with 1.5 billion. Do you think the press would be saying, well, it’s unsubstantiated? No, it’s something. Let me just tell you something. These people, not all of them, but these people are very dishonest people. Very, very dishonest. But under this administration, the great betrayal is over. America is not for sale.
 And we’re more determined than ever to drain the swamp, and that’s what we’re doing with these crazy people. A lot of bad things happened, and a lot of bad things I think are going to be revealed because there’s no way we can allow them to get away with what they would have with a normal person gotten away with. Let’s face it. These are bad people. Thanks to my tariffs, we will soon have over $100 billion from a country that didn’t want to do anything with us. And I’ll tell you, they started buying our farm product. You see that. They started buying a lot of our product even before the deals are done. Last year, I got our farmers $16 billion because they were targeted. And the year before I got them $12 billion. I just took them out of the tariffs, and we had a lot leftover. And I said, congratulations farmers. I love you. I love our farmers. They love me. That’s why they did, they targeted our farmers.
 I said, congratulations. That’s compliments of China. And they do. They want to make a deal so badly. Frankly, honestly, they want to make a deal a lot more than I want to make a deal. That’s the way it is. Because we’re doing very well right now with China. We’re replacing the NAFTA disaster with the US, Mexico, Canada agreement. A huge win for Kentucky farmers, for Kentucky auto workers, for Kentucky manufacturers. Unfortunately, Nancy Pelosi so far and the do nothing Democrats don’t want to give the people of our country a victory. It’s really, let it be a bipartisan deal. I don’t care. It’s such an incredible deal for this country, and NAFTA was one of the worst deals ever made. Democrats need to pass the US MCA. We need their votes. Otherwise you can’t pass it. And it’s up to Pelosi who has to put it forward, but she’s too busy wasting their time. So either pass it or go back to San Francisco and clean up your mess.
 The Obama Biden’s administration’s trans-Pacific partnership would have dealt the death blow to the American auto industry. That would have been one of the great catastrophes. My first week in office, I canceled that job-killing travesty. You know all about it. Under our policies just days ago, Ford and the UAW announced a $1 billion investment in Louisville. 1 billion. Before my election, our leaders used the great American middle-class as a piggy bank to fund their delusional global projects. They were globalists. I was elected to be president of the United States, not president of the globe.
 They decimated American manufacturing to promote economic growth in foreign countries. Tell me, how is that good. They try and convince you it’s good. I was a very good student. I’m a very like, we’re all smart. We sit back, we listen, and I say, these people are, something wrong with them. Only in Kentucky can somebody be so precise. You’re right about, you are right about that. They deployed our military to protect immensely wealthy nations, subsidizing their welfare states with your money. The money we spend on other country’s militaries, but it’s coming down. And I’m telling other countries, I’m sorry, you’re going to have to pay now. I’m sorry. Pay. Pay. Pay, you got to pay.
 And they poured precious American blood and treasure into the Middle East while our great cities fell into decay and disrepair. We go in for internet. We want rural, we’ll bring it in. And we’re bringing 5g into places like Kentucky that haven’t been properly served. We’re bringing it in all over the middle West, all over the country. And we’re really ahead of schedule. We’re doing really well. People will be very surprised soon when some numbers come out, but we’re doing very well. But you were very much underserved for years. And yet we’re investing billions and billions of dollars in places you’ve never even heard of. Doesn’t make sense, does it?
 But after years of rebuilding other nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation. We are finally putting America first. Yet the deep state and the failed ruling class are trying to resist any changes to their failed policies of the past. They believe it is their right to rule over you and to redistribute your wealth all around the world. No thank you. No thank you. That’s why we ended the Paris Accord. That’s why… We’ve ended a lot. I don’t even want to tell you. But the sellout of the American nation ended the day I took the oath of office and you understand that.
 Past leaders transform far away nations into chaotic war zones. Then they demanded that America accept unlimited migration from those terror afflicted regions. Take the people, take the people. We defeated ISIS. We. When I took over three years ago, when we took over, when I took over, ISIS was all over. I defeated ISIS. I didn’t even know to what extent. I was watching the other night the great Lou Dobbs, and he said, “When Trump took over, President Trump,” he used to say, “Trump is a great president.” Then he said, “Trump is the greatest president since Ronald Reagan.” Then he said, “No, no, Trump is an even better president than Ronald Reagan.”
 And now he’s got me down as the greatest president in the history of our country, including George Washington and Abraham Lincoln. Thank you. We love you too. But we didn’t fight them over there only to invite them over here. We didn’t do that. We’re not doing that. You see what we’re going and you see what we’re doing and you see it’s never easy because I get hit by the swamp 15 different ways, but it doesn’t matter. We’re doing the right thing to protect our communities. My administration implemented the travel ban on some of the world’s most dangerous countries. A lot of people were against it.
 They said, “Isn’t that terrible?” Countries that have crime rates that are so high you wouldn’t even believe it’s possible, and we have a travel ban now. We don’t take people from those countries. I’m sorry. And we won a historic victory on the travel ban in the United States Supreme Court, ruled it totally constitutional. On no issue have Democrats more totally betrayed you than on immigration. Democrats want open borders. They want to give illegal aliens free healthcare, free education, more advantages than our own citizens have and more benefits than our own military gets. In the Republican party, we believe taking care of our own citizens first is paramount.
 Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure our Southern border, illegal crossings have dropped 60% since May. The wall is being built. It’s going up rapidly. It’s got a big impact. And I want to thank Mexico. We have 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our border policing our border because the Democrats will not do anything to end loopholes. It would take us 15 minutes and we could end the loopholes. Think of the word loopholes. They don’t want to end the loophole. If you want to keep violent criminal aliens out of your communities, you have only one choice tomorrow, and that’s to vote for Matt Bevin.
 Democrats are becoming more extreme and militant by the day. The Democrat’s planned government takeover of healthcare would obliterate Medicare. What are they doing? I will always protect Medicare for our nation’s seniors. It’s going to be protected. What they’re doing is crazy. And we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. And we will also protect you with preexisting physicians. How about that? Preexisting physicians. First time I’ve ever said that, just thought of that. True. Because under their plan, you don’t get your own doctor. You know what you get? Whatever the hell you get. That’s what you get. Oh great doc, fix me up doc. You mean you want to work on my heart? Who are you, doc? I don’t think so.
 Thanks to our campaign to combat the opioid epidemic with your governor’s help, we have seen a 17% drop in overdose deaths in Kentucky, which is a record. Democrats have also waged an unrelenting assault against people of faith. Anybody in here a person of faith? Great people. The last administration threatened adoption and foster care agencies purely for their religious beliefs. Last week my administration took action to stop that Obama era assault. It was an assault. And governor Matt Bevin is a national leader on behalf of vulnerable children, and there is no better leader than him, what he has done. And together we’re fighting for American orphans, foster families, and the sacred rights of religious believers. And he’s done a fantastic job.
 Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from their mother’s womb right up until the moment of birth. And that’s why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and it’s the party of the great Abraham Lincoln. We forgot that. Abraham Lincoln. The incredible rebuilding of our military includes over $100 billion investments all across the state of Kentucky.
 I withdrew our nation from the horrible one sided Iran nuclear deal. It’s not the same country. When I came in that country, there were in 18 different sites of confliction, they called it. And now they’re a little different, a little different. We’ll see what happens with Iran. And I recognize Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Remember? He’d go around, oh, thank you so much. He wouldn’t apologize to you, but he apologized to others. Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and we are standing up for the people of Kentucky. The next step to victory begins tomorrow and it begins with all of you. You have to do this.
 Look, maybe you’ll be late for work. Maybe you’ll be late for whatever. I don’t want to know everything. Some things I don’t want to know, but you have to just put it off. You have to go vote. It’s so important. Tomorrow is so, because beyond even the governorship, and it’s so important. Because again, your state is setting records. In the history of your state, you’ve never done this well economically, job wise, unemployment, employment, factories moving in, new factories, open expansion of your car plants. You’ve never done this well, but you’re sending that big message to the rest of the country. It’s so important. You got to get your friends, you got to vote. Because if you lose, it sends a really bad message. It just sends a bad, and they will build it up. Here’s the story. If you win, they’re going to make it like ho hum. And if you lose, they’re going to say, Trump suffered the greatest defeat in the history of the world. This was the greatest.
 You can’t let that happen to me. And you know what? You can’t let that happen to your incredible state, Kentucky. You can’t let that happen. That would be a disaster for yourself because you’d be losing an incredible governor. But you’re going to have a great victory tomorrow. With your support, you have to go out and vote. We will show the corrupt Democrats that the American people are not backing down and we will never ever back down. So tomorrow, we need you to go out and get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors. Get out and vote for governor Matt Bevin and all of these great Republicans. With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity. Together we will elect a Republican Congress.
 2020, we’re going to re-elect because of their stupidity. These people are on the run, and I will campaign in every one of those states that were so corrupt if they raise their hand. And don’t forget. Out of 194, we got 194, not one Republican left us last week. And two Republicans, think of that. And the other three couldn’t get there because of, but they were votes. They said they were totally votes, had airport problems. I said, you can’t do that. Airport problems. But then we had the Democrats. We picked up two Democrats, so we had bipartisan support. That’s unusual.
 I always say because they’re lousy politicians, they’ve got lousy policy, but they do stick together. That’s about it. We will elect a Republican Congress in 2020. And we’ll have a great speaker of the house in Kevin. We’re going to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration. We’ll enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with those beautiful words “made in the USA”. We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending, listen to this, the AIDS epidemic in America within less than 10 years. We’ve already started. Who would have felt we could have done that? We’ve started.
 In the past administration toward the end, we had certain things that we could have done. They didn’t do anything. They didn’t do anything, but we did. We have it all funded and we started, think of that, AIDS within 10 years will be out of this country. Nobody would have thought that was possible. We will end it. Great, great. I came into my office, they were telling me about the breakthroughs that have been made. It’s incredible what they’re doing. And don’t forget right to try, by the way, where somebody who’s terminally ill can now use our medicines, which they were never allowed to in the past. So instead of traveling to Asia and Europe and all over the world, or going home hopeless and dying, they can now use what we call right to try. We have the greatest doctors, the greatest drugs, greatest labs in the world. They can now go and try. And we are having unbelievable success.
 Unbelievable. Right to try. We will chart a new era of discovery in space, and someday soon we will land on, believe it or not, the surface of the moon only to go to Mars. You know I said we’ve done the moon. No, they say, sir, we land on the moon to go to Mars, and that’s what we’re doing with the moon. And we are really, really advanced. It’s moving along rapidly. We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. And above all, we will never stop fighting for the cherished values that bind us together as one America. We support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes and warriors of law enforcement.
 We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. Loyal citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. The great state of Kentucky was settled by some of the most devoted and courageous people ever to walk on the face of the earth. These tough pioneer men and strong pioneer women braved the wilderness and defied the danger to build a life and to build a home. They didn’t have a lot of money. They didn’t have a lot of luxury. But they all had one thing in common. They love their families, they love their country and they love their God.
 These proud Kentucky Patriots did not shed their blood, sweat and tears so that we could sit at home while others try to erase their legacy and destroy their magnificent heritage. Our allegiance is to our nation. Our loyalty is to our citizens. And our devotion is to our Creator. For the sake of our freedom, for the sake of our children, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement. We are one people. We are one family and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of Kentucky, the best is yet to come. Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Kentucky. Thank you. Go out and vote.
 Well, thank you very much. And hello Las Vegas. Great to be with you. They have a big election tomorrow. We’ve already won the state. We’ve already won. I like ours better. We just take it. Just take it. We’ve won it. I like it that better.
 You know they say they’re going to have a lot of problems tomorrow. I hate to tell you this. I don’t know. Have you heard? I hear their computers are all messed up. Just like they were in Iowa. They’re not going to be able to count their vote. They’re going to tell you about healthcare. They’re going to tell you about our military and the jet fighters and the missiles and rockets, but they can’t count votes. They just can’t count them. They can’t count votes, but they’re saying they may not be able to do it again. They’re still trying to tell us. I called up yesterday, how are they doing in Iowa? Was that two weeks ago? They say we’re getting close. They’re not getting close, they’ll never know. They’ll never know, but I hear the same thing could happen tomorrow. I hope it doesn’t, actually.
 I hope it doesn’t, but I’m delighted to be back in a state I love. I have a beautiful building right down the road. With the proud, hardworking patriots of Nevada. You’re going to say Nevada. You say that wrong, you got problems. You say Nevada, they go, what the hell? Got to be Nevada.
 With your help this November, we’re going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats and we are going to win Nevada in a big beautiful landslide. Now, we have some special people here, you know the special very special people.
 And we celebrate one of the greatest moments in the history of sports. Some people say it was the single greatest moment in the history of sports. It was called the miracle on ice. Do you remember that? That was when the Russians had a team assembled. That was probably, they say maybe the greatest team ever assembled. They were unbelievable. And our guys played a practice game with them was it a couple of weeks before, and I hate to tell you the score was 10 to 3, and the USA was not on top, and this team was an incredible team and they went in and it was amazing, but tomorrow marks the 40 years since the United States men’s hockey team defeated then Soviet Union team in the 1980 Olympics.
 Incredible. That was incredible. Most of you remember that. I’m looking. We’ve got a lot of young ones, but we’ve got a lot of people that remember that. A lot of people. And by the way, we got the Olympics coming back or coming to Los Angeles. Thank you. Thank you President Trump. Thank you President Trump. Thank you very much. Thank you President Trump. Eight years. Eight years, 2028 you know what? Unless I’m still president then, which is a distinct possibility, I won’t be here, and you know what they’ll do? I’ll say, how’s the Olympics going? Does anybody have a ticket for the president that got the Olympics to come here? They’ll say, I want to thank and they’ll thank hundreds of people, but they won’t thank you president that I’m the one that pulled it off. But that’s okay. 2028 Olympics is coming to Los Angeles. It’s going to be great.
 And we worked with the mayor of Los Angeles. He was great. He called up and we gave him a lot of help. I was president elect then because the president didn’t want to get involved. He didn’t want to get involved in getting the Olympics, so they called me and I was president elect, hadn’t taken office. Then I got involved and I’ll tell you, they were happy we got involved. It was great. It’s going to be very exciting today.
 We are thrilled to have with us 14 players of that really incredible gold medal team. Give him a big hand. And they were amazed. They said, boy is a big crowd. I said, it’s only because you guys are coming.
 This day was supposed to be for this evening. And I said, let me get back to Washington, do it early. So we gave you almost no notice. You have thousands of people outside, thousands of people inside. You had to see, we were in Iowa we were in New Hampshire. You saw what happened in Colorado last. That was unbelievable. Every place we go it’s the same. It’s been incredible.
 I don’t know if you saw the pictures last night of the outside in Colorado. It was incredible. It was. You could have filled that arena up four times and it was a big arena, and it’s something.
 So I hated to do it to you at 12 o’clock but I said, let’s go. I want to get back. We got to deal with China. We got to deal with Russia. We got to deal with North Korea, South Korea. We got to deal with the rest of the world. Get my people back. We got to get the hell out of here, right? But we have a lot of time. I’d like now to invite these incredible sport legends to join me on stage. A friend of mine and a very good golfer, by the way, Captain Mike he rode a bike. Mike. Where’s Mike? Where is he? Mike. Do you know who he is? He’s a fake handicap is what he is. Say something Mike.
 Just welcome everybody to ironic we happen to be here to celebrate our 40th anniversary, the Vegas Knights flew the whole team out to honor us tonight and for the weekend and we obviously thank the people of Las Vegas for having us here and we’re looking forward to celebrating a special time, and it’s a great honor for the president to invite us to be part of this event as well. So Vegas, thanks for having us.
 But just tell them, am I a good athlete and am I a good golfer?
 You are. Yes sir. Whatever you say.
 Thanks Mike. That was some goaltending right? How many did you rebuff?
 I mean, but how many did Jim have? Many did.
 Very few. But a lot of shots, right?
 So Mike, that was great. Goaltender Jim Craig. So Jim rebuffed come here, Jim. Great goaltender, great goaltender. They didn’t know what was happening. They kept shooting. He doesn’t know how many you rebuffed. How many did you rebuff?
 37. So let me ask you, was that as goaltender, because that was incredible. Was that the greatest game you ever played? You’ve had a lot of great games. But was that the greatest game you’ve ever played?
 It was slightly important. 37. 37. Bill Baker. Bill, come up. Bill Baker. Dave Christian, Ken Morrow, Jack O’Callahan, Mike Ramsey.
 Walk like an old hockey player.
 Those legs took a beating. Mark Wells, Neil Brotton, John Harrington, Rob McClanahan, Buzz Schneider, Dave Silk, Phil Verchota, and a great coach and assistant coach at the time, Craig Patrick.
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
 They said four more years, 12 more years left for them. Look at that. Look at the press. Hey Mike, look at the fake news back there. It’s a lot. I always say that’s like the Academy Awards used to be. This year, we had a movie, they said best movie, they announced the movie from South Korea. I said, what’s that all about? The movie was made in South Korea. Look, I get along great with South Korea, but you know, I never saw that one before. They used to go best foreign movie, but now we do it that way.
 I don’t get it, but that’s what it used to be and this is really an incredible time. I’ll tell you what, for our country, that’s why I like to see things that we do get honored because nobody is doing what we do. Nobody can do it like us.
 We’re the greatest country in the world again. We have the greatest people. We have the greatest military by far. We’ve totally rebuilt our military. Jobs are booming, incomes are surging, poverty is plummeting. Factories are returning confidence is soaring, like these guys, the confidence is soaring, but you know, we do have somebody that I’d like to point out because this team is, they had a coach, and that coach was a very inspirational coach, would you say Mike? And I’d like to have maybe one of you come up and just say a few words about Coach Brooks because he was very, very, he was really a big, he was a big heart on this team. Please.
 I think it would be appropriate if you’ve got a few minutes that Herb Brooks’ daughter Kelly is here representing her father. And I can honestly tell you that Kelly was not ready for this at all. You got it?
 Her dad was an amazing coach. He was a great teacher. He was a great motivator at times, maybe too much of a motivator. He was very demanding. He was very difficult to play for. But trust me on one thing, there never once was a day that we didn’t respect the man and never once was a day that we didn’t trust him and what he was trying to do. He orchestrated the greatest sports moment of the 20th century and the guys behind me were so proud and honored to have been a part of him and what he was able to put together. It was a perfect environment, a perfect storm sometimes. Not only a great coach, but great players and great people that stand behind me now. So if Kelly would like to say a couple of words. No, she doesn’t.
 Thank you. I’m honored that his legacy still is alive today and he would be proud to be here with you all. In my personal opinion, he would have been a Trump fan.
 So tell me one thing, one thing. So I see those tears. That means you think, you miss him and you love him. Right? Was he actually a nice guy? Because he looked tough. Mike was just saying he was brutal, but he was a good guy, right?
 Tough but great. Thank you very much. Thanks Kelly. Thank you all. Greatest sports story could be number one.
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
 So a lot of people, a lot of these sports experts, sports writers have voted that as the single greatest sporting event or athletic achievement. I think so, yeah? They put it number one, certainly top five. In the history of our country, we have a lot of things that we’ve done to break records. We’re going to go over them, but we’ve broken a lot of records now, but I want to thank that great team for being with us. Very inspirational. This is a big day. The anniversary. Thank you fellas. Thank you.
 In my state of the union address, I proudly declare that we are in the midst of the great American comeback and we’re just getting started.
 After three years of ridiculous witch hunts and partisan Democrat crusades. By the way, I think they’re starting another one. Did you see that? I see these phoneys. These are the do nothing Democrats. They said today that Putin wants to be sure that Trump gets elected. Here we go again. Here we go again. Did you see it? A story. Aren’t people bored? Now, does that include because a couple of weeks ago, crooked Hillary said Chelsea Gabbard, right. Tulsi Gabbard and right?
 She was a Russian agent. Tulsi and also Stein from Jill Stein. I don’t know Jill Stein. I never met the woman. She is a Green Party candidate or was they said she’s an agent of Russia. I don’t know her and I don’t know Tulsi. The only thing I know about both of them is they’re not agent. They are not agents of Russia. These people are sick. That’s pencil neck, pencil neck again. Little pencil. No, I just see it again. I was told that was happening. I was told a week ago. They said they’re trying to start a rumor. It’s disinformation. That’s the only thing they’re good at. They’re not good at anything else. They get nothing done. Do nothing Democrats. That Putin wants to make sure get elected. Listen to this. So doesn’t he want to see who the Democrat’s going to be? Wouldn’t you rather have, let’s say Bernie? Wouldn’t he rather that Bernie who honeymooned in Moscow? Wouldn’t that be?
 These people are crazy. That’s all they think about. They don’t think about the country. They don’t think about jobs. They don’t think about lowering your drug costs. Infrastructure. These people are crazy. Trust me, I like what we’re doing and I love this country. I love this country.
 Now, and I campaigned on it, at the same time we want to get along with Russia, we want to get along with China, we want to get along with all these countries. Who the hell needs to have conflict? But these people are sick, they are sick people. The radical left’s attempts to poison our democracy and overturn the last election have totally ended in a big fat failure.
 And by the way, you saw today, single best day I’ve ever had is the polls and any poll that the fake news gives you, because the real numbers are higher, but any poll they give you as a fake. But Wisconsin, the great state of Wisconsin, I was leading by many, many, many points against every one of these characters. Can you believe it? We got a new one. Mini Mike. How did he do in the debate the other day? Mini Mike. Here’s a box Mike. Here Mike. Mini Mike. He was a beauty.
 What happened huh? He couldn’t breathe. What happened? Mike would like to know how about that Pocahontas screaming at him. She forgot. She forgot that she lied about her own heritage. She said she was an Indian because she had high cheekbones. That was the only thing. Remember what I said, I have more Indian blood in me than she has and I have none. Right? I have none. To the best of my knowledge, wouldn’t mind having some, but I happen to have none. And she choked and she went out and got a report done. One, 1 thousandth and 24 you know what that means? That means probably I do have more. Now why did he bring that up when she was screaming at him? Why? Because he was gasping for breath. I can’t breathe. I can’t breathe. She’s hitting me too hard. Pocahontas. Well, she won that debate cause Mike could not respond.
 That’s what they all said. They all said that. That’s funny. I won, they’re all shouting. It’s not me that’s saying it. Fake news. You fake news people. No, they all said it though. Who won the debate? Trump. You know what? The way I look at it, when fake news CNN oops, there goes the camera off. Red light just went off. See, I can tell every one of them. I know them by heart. I know the operators. I know the camera men. They’re okay. They’re all on our side by the way. They’re screamed at. Get that camera off. I don’t want to do that. Get that camera off, or it’s going to be you job. All right, I’m sorry. Precedent.
 But how bout MSDNC? They’re worse than CNN. And they’re owned by people that really are bad. I think they’re very bad for our country. The owners of Comcast, rotten company, bad for our country, very bad. They try, they have all these PR things to try and keep their image nice and clean. What they do on television is so disgusting. I think in the old days you had to have licenses for this stuff, right? They can say whatever they want to say. Let’s see what happens over the next period of time. Bunch of dishonest people. Comcast, terrible company. Terrible people running that company. And you know what, I had Celebrity Apprentice, I had the Apprentice on for 14 seasons, 14 seasons, and they used to come to my office and they would kiss my ass. Please sign. Please. Please sign.
 It’s an interesting story. They came and we signed, you know who signed me, Jeff Zucker. It’s one of the only things he’s done good in broadcasting, but I signed and NBC, as you know, is owned by Comcast, but I signed and they figured the show would be a total failure. So they only signed me for one season. You know I was going to have it. It was go on and then the show goes, started at ten went to eight, went to seven, went to five, went to four, went to two. It went to one. I had the number one show in all of television. Number one. It was a phenomenal and the final episode, remember that? With the, you remember that? Do you remember the final? We had, I don’t know, it was one of the biggest shows of the year. It was a tremendous success there.
 But here I was, I signed with NBC and they didn’t even want to waste the ink on an option. Usually they have an option for not, you know, just like they didn’t do it. You stupid people. So they paid me very little for the first season I think $25,000 a show, which is considered not good. That’s okay. It was fun. I didn’t know it was going to be success, you know? Hey, just like this was successful. It’s a recent.
 Because when I left and Arnold Schwarzenegger and I like Arnold said some very nice things, so I’m not, but the show did not exactly succeed when I left, but I had it on and they wanted me to sign for more and I said, no, I’m going to run for president but I’ll never forget.
 I looked at, I didn’t know anything about this business and I had an agent, wonderful guy from William Morris, and he said, sir, I don’t want you to sign. No business show has ever done well on network television. Well, it’s not business, it’s entertainment, celebrity. Sir, I don’t want you to sign. Sir, don’t sign. I said, yeah, okay. But I have a problem. I shook the hand of somebody I have to.
 And Mark Burnett was great. He was my guy and but we shook hands. So I have to, but I agreed, you know, I didn’t know that no business or no business type show had ever succeeded on a network television. So he said, I don’t want you to sign sir, break it. I said, I can’t break it. Can’t break it. Anyway, so the show I said started at ten, went to nine, went to became, it was the number one show all of a sudden, and the agent called me up and he said, sir, I remember it was six in the morning. I was in bed. He said, sir, the show just went to number one. I’d love to see you because I think I’m entitled to more money. I said, you didn’t want me to do the show. Well, not really. I mean, I was okay. He said, I’d really like more money. I said, Jim, I like you very much, Jim, you’re fired. Get out.
 Anyway, I had 14 great seasons over about 11 years because it was so successful, they kept… They would have run it. Remember when they did the three hours, the whole night was the Apprentice. I said, wait a minute. Gone With the Wind, to mention the movie a second time, Gone With the Wind is shorter. They had the Apprentice on for three hours. I said even I think it’s too long. You can’t put it up for three. You got leave a little bit like I want to come back next week.
 But they had it on for three weeks. We did fantastically with it. Comcast did great. NBC did great. They wanted me to sign for another three years. I said, no, I’m going to for president. And that was actually the time when I knew I was going to run. Because you know how they were paying a lot of money and whether you’re rich or not, it’s still a lot of money. I don’t care how rich you are. It’s a lot. Millions and millions of dollars. And I said no, I’m going to run for president. And I did that. But from the day I ran, they went from being, you know one…
 But from the day I ran, they went from being wonderful, they were nice. They were nice. I guess if I didn’t do well with the show they wouldn’t have been nice because they weren’t nice to other people that failed. People that didn’t have good ratings, that business is a very simple business. If you have good ratings, you can treat them like garbage. If you have bad ratings, you can say, “Sir, I really respect you so much.”
 Get out of here. Get him out of my yard. They’re very ruthless people. But Comcast is a rotten company. They forgot totally. And they are worse than CNN. I will tell you that right now. Comcast is worse than CNN. We should call it Comcast, because that’s their beautiful maiden name, Comcast. They’re worse than CNN.
 I’ll, tell you something about CNN. Jake Tapper, today he put out… Now I know you don’t like him. I know. Who likes him? Who the hell can like him? I think his wife likes him. Actually. I really believe she does. But let me just tell you, he put out a couple of social media posts today, because I never call it tweet, I call it social media because it’s much bigger than tweet.
 What we have, Dan Scavino. The great Dan Scavino. We have won five sites. We’re number one on Twitter, we’re number one on Facebook, and the whole world. The whole world. So it’s powerful. But Jake Tapper put out some things, basically saying, I believe it, that’s the way I read it, that the new Russian thing that started yesterday, that Putin wants to be sure that Trump, which give me a break. Give me a break. But Jake Tapper said it ain’t so, and if he did say that because they were a little complex, they can turn them around, or when Zucker sees him and said, “Why did you put that? I want that deleted and I want you to do a different one.” But he did say that. So I respect that because it’s another hoax story. But we’re standing up for the defense of our constitution, for our freedom, and democracy itself. You know that.
 [inaudible 00:29:03] I got to get that. Hey, Bobby? Bobby? See that guy? I love that shirt. Bobby, I don’t know. He looks like a nice guy. Can you please walk him up, even if you have about five. Come here, come here. Come here. Come here. You got to see this shirt. You got to see this shirt. I love it.
 I’ve got to order me one that I can ride around. Come on. Come on up here. He looks safe. He doesn’t look like he’s going to start a fist fight. He’s a good fan, I guess. You got to see this shirt. I love it. Is there any place that’s more fun than a Trump rally? Right?
 How many rallies have you been to?
 80? 80? 80. He said 80 rallies. Come up here. Come on. Come on. Come on. Look at these two guys. These guys are serious. These are serious fans, right? Are you with him? Are you with him? Are you with him? You’re with him?
 Hello again, sir. We met yesterday at your rally [inaudible 00:03:34].
 I’ve been to two rallies in one week, so I’m just getting started. I’m just getting started.
 Welcome. [inaudible 00:30:40].
 God bless you. Thank you, president. [inaudible 00:30:53] Thank you for saving America.
 We love you. You saved us. You saved us, thank you.
 Thank you, president Trump, for saving America. [inaudible 00:31:01]
 Wow. I just said, “How long have you two been together?” I figured they’d say, “We’re married.” He met her at the rally in Colorado. Can you believe this? Can you believe it? Man, did he get lucky. They both got lucky, right? They both got lucky. Well, that’s cool. No, I just see there’s so much stuff out here. It’s genius, actually. While the extreme left has been wasting America’s time with viral hoaxes, we’ve been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border, lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. As you heard, we added another 225,000 new jobs last month alone. Way above anticipated schedule. And that makes 7 million new jobs since the election. The number was supposed to be under 2 million and we added 7 million. And remember, if I give you wrong numbers, the fake news is going to have headlines.
 “Trump gave you wrong…” I mean, it’s very tough. I’ve got to be very careful. Even if I give you wrong in the wrong way, they’ll say it was wrong. I said, “Yeah, but it was wrong in the low way.” No, that’s no good either. Got to be very precise with these characters. The Democrats don’t have to be, but we have to be. We’ve destroyed he ISIS territorial caliphate 100%, we killed the founder and leader of ISIS. Al Baghdadi is dead. Al Baghdadi is dead. 17 years. They looked for him. 17 years.
 Al-Baghdadi. One of the first things I did when I came in. He’s the founder of ISIS and when I came in three years ago, ISIS was all over the place. And I said, “You got to knock it out.” We knocked it out of Syria, and, Iraq and other places. We really knocked at 100%.
 Remember I wanted to leave. I said, “All right.” We were at 96%, then 98, then 99%. I said, “Let some of these other countries do it.” Wouldn’t you say, right? So what happened is I wanted to leave and they said, “No, no, no, we want 100%.” So we wait and stayed. We got 100%, then we moved them all out of Syria, except we did keep the oil. You noticed that, right? We kept the oil. Sorry. They said, “He left soldiers in Syria.” Yeah, I did to keep the oil, if you don’t mind. Which is what we should have done in Iraq too, by the way.
 I would have done that. I’m making a lot of money with all that oil. But you remember that whole thing, that whole… I said, “You got to find Al Baghdadi.” I’ve been saying that actually for two years. I had a lot of other things to do the first year, like fight off the Democrats. These crazy Democrats with their hoaxes. Think of it.
 If they use their genius, because they are genius at that stuff, right? They’re really good. They can take nothing. They can take a perfect phone call made to the Ukrainian president who said very specifically there was no pressure. He doesn’t even know what’s going on and they can take this perfect call. Thank goodness I had a transcriber. Do you agree with it? Because the fake whistleblower said that the call was totally different than what the call was.
 So when I released the call, when I released the transcripts, they died. They said, “Oh we got a problem.” They never thought I was going to do it, but I had no choice. I had to because I had to show they’re liars. But think of it, they can take something like that, a perfect phone call, or they’ll take just out of thin air they can make something up.
 And they ended up today, front page, New York Times. They used to call it the eighth column. That’s the big column on the right. I don’t know. The papers become so small. I don’t know if they have an eighth column anymore. They used to have the eighth column, was a big deal, right? That was the big deal. Today it’s too narrow. Think they’re probably… After I’m gone, they won’t have any columns. That’s why eventually they’re going to support me.
 Eventually, the Times and the Washington post, which will be dead as a doornail after I leave, and the CNN, it’ll be an obsolete business, the cable business. MSDNC will be out of business. You know, cable was supposed to be obsolete and now they’re doing the highest numbers they’ve ever done. If an airplane goes down with 700 people, they don’t cover it. If it’s not Trump related, they don’t cover it. It’s got to be Trump or Trump related. So if a plane goes down and it’s total devastation, if the ship goes down, if the Titanic-
 If the Titanic equivalent went down, they wouldn’t cover it unless I was on the sucker. It’s true. They wouldn’t cover it. The fake news would not cover the equivalent of the Titanic.
 But you know what they’re going to do before the election? They’re going to say, “We want to just say something. We’re going to endorse the president.” You know why? Because they’ll be out of business. Can you imagine if they had to cover mini Mike? Who I don’t think, I think he’s gone, but you know what? He’ll spend another 500 million. Don’t forget I spent 70 and I won, of my money. In other words, they said, and this was in the New York Times, I said the other night in Colorado.
 I spent 70, mini Mike so far has spent almost $500 million dollars in order to get embarrassed by Pocahontas. Pocahontas. And she’s mean, isn’t she? Did you see that? Do you see the anger on her face? That nervous energy. She’s jumping up and down. She’s a mess. But no, no, she’s mean. Right? Right? That face is just… “You want to get him?” She said, “I got him. I want to see those agreements.” “I,” “You open up those agreements.” This poor guy probably signed a hundred of them and each one’s a disaster. He said, “I don’t want to open those agreements. Nobody told me this was going to happen.”
 Said, “Actually, sir.” “Nobody told me. Get me out of here.” After the debate, he went backstage, fired a lot of people. He said, “How the hell did you get me into this thing?” But Pocahontas was really mean, but she’s going to be easy. I hope it’s her. It’s not going to be her.
 She made a little comeback the other night because she took mini Mike to the cleaners. But it’s not going to be here. It can’t be [inaudible 00:11:28]. Can’t be, I don’t think. Alfred E. Neuman, ladies and gentlemen, introducing president Alfred E. Neuman. Nobody knows because you’re all too young. Nobody knows who Alfred… it’s Mad Magazine.
 They all said… No. Howdy Doody. See nobody knows who Alfred E. Neuman is. Only the real aficionados. They’re the ones and they love it. But that’s only 15% of the crowd, right? Am I right? Better than Howdy Doody. Howdy Doody.
 But he’s got to learn. He’s got to worry about his own city. It’s going to hell, so he’s got to worry. Because that city’s got a lot of problems. I don’t get the whole thing, but he’s not a bad debater, I will say. He’s probably the best up there. And Bernie is too emotional. He’s screaming, going crazy. And Biden is angry. Biden is angry. Everything’s anger. [inaudible 00:39:26] And that’s what happens when you can’t get the words out. No it does.
 That’s what happens, right? When you can’t get the words out, you get angry. You get angry because you can’t get the words. That might happen to me someday. Can you imagine if that happened to me? Man, would I be a bad guy. I’d be the meanest man in history. No, but Biden is very angry.
 He gets angrier, and angrier, and angrier. He’s changed. And then you have the Tom. Yeah. He said Tom Steyer. Tom said, ” Mister impeachment.” How did that work out, Tom? Thank you very much for the great poll numbers between him and nervous dancing.
 How did that work out? This schmuck spends $250 million dollars, he ends up with one third of a percent in Iowa. But maybe that could be Rick, because they still don’t have any idea what he got. Maybe he won Iowa, they took it away from him. No, but he was substantially below it. All I know, it said 1% and an arrow left.
 So he spends 250 million, Tom Steyer. Never heard of this guy. Who is he? Where did he get his money? Who is he? He was in the coal business, did you know that? This guy, this phony is a big environmentalist. He made his money, a lot of it, in the coal business. Nobody knows that, but he’s a fake.
 Remember when he walked up to Bernie the other day. “Hi Bernie. Hi.” Oh, and he was having a fight with Pocahontas, right? Is this the greatest? Mark Burnett said, “This is the greatest reality show in history.” He said, “You can take The Apprentice, and you can take Survivor, and you can take every other reality show ever made, multiply it times 10,000, and you still don’t have what we have. And even the CAS.” He did say this. You got the perfect president. You got the perfect first lady. How about the first lady? You got the perfect kids. The kids, though. Those beautiful kids. My beautiful kids. They had such a great life, before I did this. Sorry, kids. Sorry. My beautiful Ivanka. She had such a great life. She Had a company that was selling shoes and everything you could sell. She’d just put her name on it and she said, “Daddy, does it matter? I want to come to Washington and help people get jobs.”
 Right? Ain’t that true? And she left the company. And when you leave a company, all of a sudden it doesn’t do as well. I wouldn’t say that I exactly helped talking about the wall and other things, but she left the company, came to Washington and she said 500,000 jobs. That was her goal. And she did that in the first month. She actually did.
 She’s gotten these great companies like Walmart, and many others, Exxon, she’s gotten them to take millions of people. She’s now over 15 million jobs where they train people and bring them into the companies. It’s incredible. 15 million. And she’s smart. She got it figured out, but most people can’t, but she does. But all they do is give them heat. They work so hard. And could you imagine you take Biden’s son. Can you imagine?
 I deal with all these big companies and these great, great countries. I think I could get my sons 25 board chips for millions of dollars a piece. My kids would be [inaudible 00:43:21]. But you know what? We don’t do any of that stuff. We don’t do that stuff. We don’t do it. The kid got $3 million dollars, 83,000 a month and he didn’t have a job until his father became vice president. And speaking of vice presidents and speaking also of reality television, because it’s the greatest show of all time, right? Look at us. Look.
 We told you, what, last night? Little change here, folks. We’re going to move it up from eight o’clock in the evening until 12 o’clock in the afternoon. Little change. Just a minor change. Because I have to get back to Washington to work. I feel guilty. This is too much fun. But speaking to vice presidents and speaking of perfect vice presidents, if you become president, the first thing you have to do is choose a really horrible, horrible vice president. So if the idiots ever want to impeach you, they have to say, I can’t impeach him. Look who we have. I have the perfect vice president. I have the greatest in the world. I have the greatest vice president.
 I don’t know. I got the great ones. I said, “I can’t do that.” I picked a great guy. He’s done a fantastic job. He’s been a great vice president. But it is true. I could have picked, I’ll give you names, but don’t want to do that because I don’t want to hurt anyone’s feelings. But there are plenty of them out there.
 They’re mostly out there and I don’t want to do that. But Mike Pence has been great. But tell me, is it perfect casting the whole thing? And this isn’t about casting, this is about real life. But when Mark Burnett said to me the other day, he said, “The greatest reality show of all times, times of million.” That’s exactly except for one thing, we work our asses off and we are doing things like nobody has ever done before.
 Right? Right? So, we took out Al Baghdadi and then we just took out two weeks ago the world’s top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani of Iran, ending his evil reign of terror forever. He’s the father of the roadside bomb. When you see our beautiful people walking around with no legs, they’re walking, and trying to walk so hard, and they’re really in rough shape.
 Incredible the job that doctors do at Walter Reed and some of these hospitals. And they get them to a point where sometimes they really can, they walk around, but it’s hard. And they lose legs, and they lose arms. That was [inaudible 00:46:14] he’s the father of the… he loved the roadside bomb. He thought it was a great thing. Where is he now?
 Soleimani. And I’ll tell you what, you know who’s happy about it? The people of Iran are happy and even the leaders of Iran, because the leaders of Iran were afraid of him. Okay? And the fact is, America is respected again. We’re winning. We’re winning all over. We’re winning in Washington that Democrats keep losing their minds. That is why millions of registered Democrat voters are leaving their party to join our movement.
 It’s not even a party, it’s a movement. They’re joining the Republican party. It’s true. We have a lot of… Look at the energy in this room. They’re all [inaudible 00:47:10]. They’re all [inaudible 00:47:13]. Look, we’re a unified party. The Republican party has never been unified like it is today.
 I’ll show you. I could say, “We’re going to go over to the Hill. No, we’re going to go over to someplace and we’re going to do a rally at eight o’clock tonight.” We’d have tens of thousands of people there. There’s never been this. Ronald Reagan was great. I thought he was a great guy, great president, didn’t like his policy on trade. That’s okay. Trade.
 But if he came to Las Vegas, you know they’d have a ballroom, and they’d have 500, maybe a thousand people. What we’re doing… And this isn’t even, I must say this, I don’t want to tell you this, this is not election season. Because we’re nine months away. Election season is when you’re two months away. We’re not even in election season and we have more enthusiasm now. Believe it or not, then we had even before the election in 2016. It’s true. It’s too early. It’s too early. It’s true. We have a great gentleman and a woman with us, a friend of mine, mister and misses Sheldon Adelson, right over here. Great, great person. Two great people. He’s got so much money, he doesn’t know what the hell to do with it. He owns the Sands Hotel. That’s like one of the smaller businesses.
 Sheldon, that’s like your small business, right? He is a great guy. She’s an incredible, she’s a doctor, and she studies addiction, and drugs, drug addiction, all sorts of addictions. And she knows more about that subject, I think, than anybody, and she works hard and she doesn’t need it. He does not need the money that she brings in. Okay?
 He also happens on the paper. He owns the paper. You own the paper in town, right? They wanted like a couple of hundred million dollars too much. You said, “Give it to them. It’s peanuts. What the hell difference does it make? We want to thank the Adelsons. They’ve been incredible fans and they love Israel. They love Israel. I just saw him sitting there. I didn’t know they were here. I just see him sitting there. He’s something.
 The chairman of the Nevada Republican party, who’s really been great. He’s been with me for a long time and he’s a very committed man. Make America great again. Oh, oh, oh. Let’s do a poll quick. Just quick. I’ll never get rid of MAGA because I’m superstitious. But we just hit an all time high with the stock market. Our military is rebuilt. You just got the greatest tax cuts in history, the greatest rate, regulation cuts, and all this stuff. So, let me ask you this.
 So, “Make America great again,” it sort of doesn’t work quite as well. So now we have keep America great and we have the new hat. It’s higher, stiff. It’s like a billboard, right? I call it the billboard. It’s a billboard. So let’s go just that. Because I am very surprised by it. We’re going to keep them both, but I just curious if we did go to one, “Make America great again?” ” Keep America great?”
 I can’t. I would have said that’s impossible. “Make America great again,” is the greatest phrase. A lot of people, again, fake news, I think will agree to it. It’s the greatest phrase ever used in politics. It’s the greatest phrase. Now, who has the greatest phrase ever used in the history of politics and say, “Oh, let’s go with a new phrase.” Right?
 But we’re going to keep it. So we have to keep MAGA. But now we have CAG, now we have CAG. So we have a both. I just don’t have the courage to get rid of the one. It would be too disrespectful. Too disrespectful. But Michael McDonald, I want to thank you and the members of the Nevada Republican central committee. You’re all here. They’re great people. And the man came here. He loves us. He’s been with us. Rick Harrison of the world famous gold and silver pawn shop. Rick Harrison.
 You better win, Michael. Otherwise, that’s the last time I’m introducing you like that. I hear we’re up. I hear we’re doing nicely. I hear we’re doing great. And by the way, the union, I have a lot of respect for that union. Last time, I had a strike in my building during the election. It’s the only reason we would have won this state. Brilliantly to save three cents. I could have settled the strike before the election. I wanted to save $2 total.
 That was a brilliant move. And then we had some guy running. A guy named [inaudible 00:25:55]. And he wasn’t too good. He didn’t do too good. But we almost won this state despite… I had a big strike. Had thousands and thousands of union guys. They had it, look, they wanted, wanted to show us. But I think that the unions are really with us and the unions have been with us. They’re Teamsters, so many of the unions.
 Because I’m for the working man and woman, whether you’re union or non-union. Some States are all union, some states are no union. But we get them all. And I think we’re going to have tremendous success. And a lot of the Democrats are going to ruin the healthcare programs that these unions have. The unions have worked hard on healthcare and they’re going to ruin them.
 They’re going to take away… Well, we’re going to… you can lose 180 million people off of great private healthcare. So we’ll see what happens. But a lot of the Democrats want to do that. They think it’s wonderful. But together we’re building the world’s most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society. That’s true. Since my election, over 125-
 That’s true. Since my election, over 125,000 new jobs have been created right here in Nevada, including over 40,000 new Nevada manufacturing and construction jobs. A 30% increase. The national unemployment rate is the lowest in over half a century, and soon we’re going to have that be a historic number like so many of the others. The average unemployment rate for my administration, this is the coolest of them all, is the lowest for any United States president in recorded history. That’s pretty good. When I’m in a debate, they’re saying, “we’re going to do this.” I say, “listen, we have the best unemployment numbers in the history of our country.” African American unemployment, Hispanic American. Hispanic, we got a lot of Hispanic. I love Hispanic. Who in this audience is Hispanic? Yeah, we’re doing great. Well, we should be doing great. You have the lowest unemployment rates ever recorded. Asian Americans, likewise the lowest ever recorded. The unemployment rate for women reached the lowest rate in 71 years. African American youth unemployment has reached an all time historic low. People I love, people I might’ve helped more than anybody because of choice and accountability. The veteran’s unemployment rate drop to the lowest record. Lowest in history.
 The unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached an all time historic low and you got to remember they’re back there checking every word. They’re going,” oh, my god. He’s right.” I can’t say it because I got all these maniacs back there. They’re trying to find… “He put the comma in the wrong place. He didn’t make that word plural, therefore he lied.” Now I’ve got to be very accurate because all these numbers, they check them out. “They’re in there, checking them out. Check on the African American unemployment, please.” Please tell me it’s not historic. These people are among the most dishonest human beings on earth. Not all of them. Workers without a high school diploma. We have millions of people that didn’t go through high school. They left. They had problems, good problems, bad problems, families where they don’t have the money. They didn’t get a high school diploma. They’ve achieved the lowest unemployment rate ever recorded in the history of the United States.
 Those are important groups of people. Half a million more Hispanic Americans now own a home. Now, Hispanic have done so good. And by the way, you know who understands the border, because we are building that wall like crazy. Remember, they also said, “if you build the wall you’ll lose the Hispanic vote.” I said, “I got to do what’s right. You know who understands the border better than anybody? You know who understands crime at the border better than anybody? The Hispanics understand it and they don’t want to be working and have people come and take their job. Have people come in where they can’t pay for their house, have people come in who are very bad people.” You have some very bad people. You have murderers and rapists, and we have set all sorts of records at the border, but we’re up to 122 miles of wall, and it is true. The people that understand it the best are Hispanic. So, thank you. We got to make our country safe. We’ve lifted 10 million people off of welfare. Median household income is now the highest ever recorded in our country. Think of that. I say it all the time. President Bush, eight years, $450. President Barack Hussein Obama, eight years, $ 975. President Donald John Trump, three years. It’s actually less when they did the numbers. Three years, including the big tax cuts that we got you and the regulation cuts. Three years.
 So, you had 450, 975, that’s eight and eight. Now we’re down to three years, a little less, three years, $ 10,000 per family a year. 10,000 a year. Our historic regulatory reduction campaign is restoring American liberty and ending the tyranny of federal bureaucrats. I deal with them. They’re not good. It’s called the swamp. We’ve ended the war on American energy, lowering utility bills, reducing prices at the pump, reducing your prices. Part of that number is all of the money that we save at the pump and on electric. I also recently took action on an issue Nevada has been dealing with for over 30 years. Yucca mountain. You know Yucca mountain? My budget stops funding for the licensing of waste storage at Yucca mountain, so that we can focus on positive solutions and for much better reasons and alternatives. Why should you have nuclear waste in your backyard? I won’t say which countries, but you know what other countries do? I will not say which ones.
 They put it on a ship. They float it out into the middle of the ocean. They find a nice deep spot and they dump it. That’s the end of it. But we would never do that for environmental reasons. We are reversing decades so Yucca mountain… You’re okay, please. Okay. Just relax. Sheldon, do you have somebody at your newspaper back there who can write. Yucca mountain, please. He’ll call up, “Yucca mountain is okay.” That’s the end of that. So Yucca mountain, you’re in great shape. Maybe they can finally report it properly, but we’re reversing decades of calamitous trade policies. For years, Washington politicians took money from lobbyists, global corporations and corrupt special interest to ship our jobs and factories and all of this stuff and all of this wealth. They stole our wealth. They shipped it overseas and to other countries. America lost one in four manufacturing jobs following the twin disasters of NAFTA and China’s entrance into the WTO, the world trade organization. Probably an even worse deal for us than NAFTA, if that’s possible, but under my administration, the great betrayal of America is over. America is no longer for sale. Last month we ended the NAFTA catastrophe and I signed the brand new U.S., Mexico, Canada agreement USMCA. See, we played the song YMCA because that’s the only way you’ll remember. Just think of the song YMCA. Think of the song and you’ll remember that USMCA is a gigantic victory for farmers, ranchers, and manufacturers all across the great state of Nevada. I also took the strongest ever action to confront China’s massive theft of America jobs. Our strategy worked. Last month, we signed a ground breaking trade agreement. Probably the biggest agreement of any kind ever signed with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property and boost American exports by a lot. China will be buying $250 billion worth of goods from us now and 50 billion from our farmers. My guys wanted 16, I said, “make it 50.” My guys wanted 16, they got China up to 20. I said, “Nope. Got to make it 50,” and then I said to China, “you got a billion and a half people. What difference does it make?” They said, “you’re right.” 50 billion, I don’t think our farmers can produce that much, but we’re going to soon find out. They’re going to buy very large tractors. After years of building up other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. we are finally putting America first.
 Or no issue of Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than the issue of immigration. Before I came into office, the far left’s policy of open borders allowed deadly drugs to flow freely into our country, poisoning our children, including right here in a very big way. The great state of Nevada. Washington Democrats put the needs of illegal immigrants before the wellbeing of American citizens. You know that, you’ve been complaining about it for a long time. It’s one of the reasons you voted for Trump. They want to let anyone from around the world simply walk across the border and then they want to give them a lifetime of free welfare, of healthcare, of lots of other things, including education. All paid for by the taxpayers of the United States. Illegal immigration costs Nevada taxpayers, think of it, more than $1.6 billion every year, over $1,500 per household. For the amount of money Washington Democrats want to spend supporting illegal immigrants, we could rebuild every city, all of these distressed areas in the United States, throughout our country. The money spend, it’s not even thinkable and don’t forget when we say come, like in California the clown, he says, “come, we’ll give you free healthcare.” People that weren’t even thinking about coming. That’s why we have caravans of people that we’re turning back. Mexico’s been great. By the way, they gave us 27,000 soldiers on our border.
 But when a governor, nice guy actually, he’s a nice guy. We just got to explain the facts of life. He’s a nice guy. Oh doctor, please. Doctor in the house, please. Medical, please. A doctor. Thank you. Take your time. We’ve got plenty of time. Yeah, take your time please. A lot of these people have been here for three days. It’s a lot. Those front row people are tough. Take your time, doc. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, doctor. That’s true. They get here so… They stand and sit and sometimes days early. In Colorado, they’re there three, four days early. It’s tough. And we work it and make sure that you have everything you want. Number one, we cover the facts and number two, we want to have a good time because we have to have a good time. But things like that happen a lot because after two, three days, it’s not easy and these are strong people. I’m not going to fight any of them, okay?
 Now, amazing people. Thank you very much. Under my administration, we’re finally taking care of our own citizens first, including millions of illegal immigrants who follow our laws, pay their taxes, lift up our society, and are entitled to a government that protects their families and protects their communities. Every day, Democrats’ open border policies are harming and killing innocent people. You know what’s happening, you know what’s going on. In this region alone last year, ICE officers, and they’re patriots. They’re strong, tough patriots. If we didn’t have them. They remove thousands and thousands of MS13 gang members a year and plenty of others. Who else is going to do it? ICE officers arrested over 5, 000 criminal aliens charged or convicted of dangerous offenses, including robbery, rape, and even murder. Many murders. In Western Nevada, an illegal alien was charged with robbing and brutally executing four victims last year. Right here in Las Vegas, three MS13 gang members abducted a man, tied him up with his shoelaces, shot him repeatedly, and hacked him to death with a machete. You know exactly what I’m talking about. It’s right here in your place, in Las Vegas, right here. Tied up and hacked him to death. Yet left wing politicians oppose all detention of illegal aliens, even convicted criminals and murderers, and they support deadly sanctuary cities. I say this all the time and I just… How the hell, where are they coming from? I don’t get it right. Seriously, I don’t get it. Sanctuary cities imperil American lives by releasing dangerous criminal aliens directly into your communities. If you want to shut down sanctuary cities, if you want to protect your family and your loved ones, you must vote Republican in 2020. And you have some great ones here, Michael. Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we have reduced illegal border crossings eight straight months in a row. And as the wall gets longer, it gets easier and easier. Remember when the Democrats were saying, “you don’t need a wall.” Two things that never change, right? All these computers, they said, “use drones.” Oh great, we’ll fly over with drones. Watch the people pour in by the thousands. That’s great. Use drones. Before I came along, they all wanted a wall. They just didn’t know how to build it. They had no clue. They had the money, they actually gave the money back, but they had no clue. But as soon as I came in and I said, “Wall,” they went against and I made a terrible mistake.
 They always say I never admit mistakes. I do, but I’ll admit a mistake now. I should have said, we will never, ever under any circumstances build a wall. They would have given me so much money for a wall, you have no idea. They would’ve forced me to build it. I made a terrible mistake, right? Terrible mistake. If it ever happens again, which it won’t. This wall is one of a kind. They will say, “we will not build a wall,” and they’ll say, “we demand that you build a wall,” and it would have been so easy. Illegal crossings are down 75% since last spring and we have ended catch and release. A horrible [inaudible 00:01:14:08].
 We catch them. You know the story. They come over, could be a killer, murderer, rapist. They come over. We can’t do anything. We have to be politically correct. We catch them. We then say, “what’s your address?” They don’t know. They don’t even know their country in many cases. Where do you come from? We don’t know and they mean it, but some are very serious criminals. So, we catch them, we take whatever they can take, which is nothing, and then we had to release them in our country. We can’t bring them back. And then we have a system of judges, thousands of judges all over the place. You got to be like Perry Mason and every illegal that comes in, they have the lawyers. The lawyers meet them, they get paid fees, but we’re breaking the system. No more catch and release, you think that was easy? And the big thing is that 30 foot… And this wall is built exactly to the specifications of border patrol. Totally. And border patrol has seized the largest amount, just recently, of deadly narcotics ever recorded. The largest amount. We’ve deported record numbers of gang members. We’ve done more to secure the border than any administration in history. We are, as I said, building the wall faster than ever. Faster and bigger than anyone thought possible. They can’t believe we’re getting it done. We’ll have over 500 miles of wall built sometime next year. 500 miles.
 Washington Democrats have never been more extreme than they are right now. 132 congressional Democrats have now signed up for Bernie Sanders takeover of healthcare that would strip 180 million Americans, many of them in this room, of their private coverage. Remember president Obama? Remember, he said, “you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan.” 28 times, he lied, so we should impeach him. We’re going to impeach him. We’ll do a belated impeachment. 28 times, “you can keep your doctor,” right? Remember, you could keep your doctor. Unfortunately, when they found out you can’t keep your doctor, he said, “I was just kidding.” Now, we should impeach him. We’ll do a belated impeachment. Fake news, you have it. See, you have to be very careful when you say impeachment because you know what they do? They go back and they write. President Trump said that Obama should be impeached, but he’s not in office and so therefore they can’t impeach. He doesn’t know what he’s talking about because he’s not in office, so therefore they can’t. So, you have to be very careful. That’s why I use the word belated impeachment. Belated, meaning I’m just kidding, okay?
 They do it all the time. They had it the other day. I said, “bring back Gone With The Wind,” right? I said a little bit up here, but I said the movie the other day in Colorado, I guess. I said, “Huh, South Korean movie won.” They said, “ladies and gentlemen, the winner of the Academy Award is …” A movie made in South Korea, what’s this all about? And I deal with them, they like me. We’re helping them a lot. They’re killing us on trade. They beat us on trade and then they win the Academy Award for a fricking movie.
 But we redid that trade deal, but the other day they got me on this one too. I said, “whatever happened to Gone With the Wind, that beautiful movie? Vivian Lee, Clark Gable, right? Whatever happened, bring back Gone With the Wind.” And some of them wrote, “he doesn’t know that that movie was made in 1936.” He says fake news. It is fake news, they’re fakers. But now, anybody sitting there reading this saying, “man, Trump, can’t be that smart. He said bring back Gone With the Wind. That’s an old movie.” Yeah, it’s an old classic. What I say is make great movies, not this computerized garbage. And I was never a fan of Brad Pitt, I will tell you that.
 No, I thought he was a stiff. He was a stiff, it’s like a boring guy. All of a sudden he wins the Academy Award, so fitting. Their ratings aren’t so good at the Academy Awards. You know when that stopped? When they started attacking us, their ratings went right down the tubers. I told somebody, the evening newscasts, they’re terrible for conservative people and they’re crooked, they’re absolutely dishonest. I said to one of the big broadcasters, I’m friendly with him. I said, “if you ever did a conservative newscasts, instead of… you got, ABC is terrible. NBC is just absolutely atrocious.” And they do badly. Not a lot of people are watching. They used to, when we had the late, great Walter Cronkite and these legends, right? But ABC is terrible and NBC is terrible and CBS is terrible. They’re all the same. And I said, “your ratings stink. If you would do a newscast that’s conservative, I’d get them a host. I could recommend guys right now, right? I’d get them a host. We’ll call up… Don’t take Sean Hannity away from us. Don’t take our show.
 That’s my problem, I don’t want to take away any of our people. You get a Pete Hegseth. You get a Jesse Waters. You get… I could name so many of them, right? And you put them on that broadcast, their ratings would go up five fold but they don’t know that. I don’t know. They’re stupid. Their ratings would go through the roof, but they would rather have a failed broadcast that nobody watches than put on a conservative person and lift the ratings five times. They would rather have a fail… Seven months ago we had a little skit, and they were hoping the market would crash because they would rather lose their money, or big parts of it, and have a really horrible market on the basis that we, not me, we could not be elected on November 3rd. This is how crazy-
 … on November 3rd. This is how evil, this is how crazy they are. They’ve gone crazy. I guess you call it Trump derangement syndrome. But if they ever did a conservative broadcast, meaning very fair, very honest When I say that, it’s almost like do a fair broadcast. Just a fair broadcast. That thing would be the hottest show. But they don’t realize it. And if they do, they probably wouldn’t do it anyway because they don’t want to go away from what they’re doing, which is crazy because it is, they’re doing very poorly.
 While the social and socialist Democrats are trying to destroy American healthcare and your Social Security, they’re putting it at risk, my administration is protecting your Social Security. Remember they said, four years ago in the debates and you had this crazy woman. I mean, I hate to mention her name. I did it you know, yesterday. I threw all the runs, hates it.
 She’s a zero. It’s got zero television personality. Aero AB Stoddard, whoever that is. She said, “Donald Trump lost all of his debates.” I won every debate and maybe, I don’t know maybe one somebody, but I won with tremendous numbers. He says, “You always won.” I’m not sure. We try, I’ll tell you that and we’re winning now.
 But this crazy woman who’s got zero going, zero. She said, “Donald Trump lost his debates that he won.” You know, she was talking about how badly Benny Mike did. So she said, “Well, Donald Trump.” No, I won every single debate. I won them against crooked Hillary. I won them in the primaries like 15 or 16 debates. And for some reason, you know, sometimes you do say, it’s not a big deal. Nobody watches it. Nobody cares. Nobody even knows who she is. I just made her famous, right?
 She’s nothing. She’s nothing. She’s got no talent, got nothing. She’s probably got a little drive. That’s how she keeps getting on television. Other people don’t have her drive. But you know what? I said, “That’s really unfair.” So I took out the polls, Time magazine, Drudge, good guy, Drudge, Drudge. We took out a lot of different things and we put up the Drudge poll, the Time magazine and many others. And some of them had to be down to like at 91% and they didn’t have many people and I can’t really show up because many of those people are now great friends of mine.
 Some of them are great Republican senators. I’m not going to show results, but I’m holding it up just quickly glancing. I call it a glancing blow, but we won the debates and I have this fake news person saying, “Donald Trump did very poorly in the debates.” I want every debate easily. I never did it before. Remember my first question? I said, “Rosie O’Donnell.” That was one of my best answers. Rosie O’Donnell who violated the campaign finance laws as badly as anybody I’ve ever seen and nothing happens to her. Right? And yet Dinesh violate … He made a little mistake and they want to destroy him. So we pardoned him. We pardoned him.
 By the way, he made a mistake. Rosie O’Donnell. That was a massive violation of the campaign finance laws but Dinesh, Dinesh, they wanted to put him in jail. I don’t know. I think he might’ve even gone to jail for a period of time for doing something that was really very understandable. Rosie O’Donnell. Five times what she did is incredible. Nothing happens. And then she gets on and says, what a bad guy I am. I’m not a bad guy, but it’s really a disgrace. You know, it’s a disgrace. I’m glad they didn’t do anything with it, frankly because you know what to do for something like that. But you know what? We have two sets of justices in this country. It’s no good. It’s no good. It’s no good. You know the thing we’re working on right now? We’re trying to get fairness for a certain person who’s been treated very unfairly.
 A man who had a juror, who was a radical anti-Trump person, and she didn’t say that when she went up there and she became the foreperson of the jury and she did terrible things and said terrible things. And you know how they caught her. When he was convicted and then a statement was made, she started jumping up and down screaming, ” Yes, yes.” And started telling everybody. They said, “Wait a minute. Wasn’t she just a juror?” The woman was totally biased. How do you do this? So I fight. Look, I fight. A lot of times it’s not worth it, but I got to fight for fairness.
 I got to fight for fairness. Got to fight for fairness. It’s a very unfair system. I guess it’s called the swamp. When I said drain the swamp, it was a nice phrase. I never liked the phrase. When I was campaigning, somehow the phrase came up, “Sir, I think we have a phrase, drain the swamp.” I said, “I don’t like it. That’s too hokey.” But one day I was in a big arena, 25,000 people packed before the election and I said, “And we will drain the swamp.” The place went crazy. I said, “Wow, you never know. You never know.”
 Frank Sinatra said his best song. I won’t tell you which one because I’ll ruin it for you, but his best song is the song that he thought would never make it, the song that he liked the least, but he said that’s the one that was the most successful that the people like you never know. So I said, “Drain the swamp.” And the people went crazy. I said, “Woah.” I said, “Let’s try that again.” And the next time I did it again and again and again. I only didn’t know how disgusting and dirty the swamp is and a lot of the media is a big part of the swamp.
 So my administration is protecting your social security, your Medicare, and is fighting to give you great healthcare. We’re defending your right to keep your doctor and your plan. We’re defending that right. You’re going to have that right back. We’re going to cancel that Obamacare if we could win the case and we’re going to give you great healthcare and we’re making healthcare better and much cheaper while premiums more than doubled in the last five years before I took office. We’re managing it very well. We got rid of the individual mandate, by far the most unpopular thing where you had to pay a lot of money for the privilege of not having to pay for bad healthcare, right? We got rid of it.
 And it was upheld in the Supreme Court, what we did. Whenever we get sued, everything we do, if we move, if we take 10 steps right or left, we get sued and we’re now offering plans that are up to 60% less expensive. We’re going to make healthcare a big part of this campaign.
 We’re protecting people with preexisting conditions and we always will. That’s why if we are successful, you don’t want the Supreme Court to try and get rid of this, the caucus. It’s a caucus known as Obamacare, but we’re running it much better than they did. Remember when they had, this was the greatest, the $5 billion website, right? 5 billion. It was supposed to cost 5 million. I have a son at home. He’s 13. He’s a genius with computers.
 “Hi, dad. What’s up? Dead dad. Get out of here.”
 Hey listen. I’m the president of the United States, pal. Don’t talk to your dad. “Dad, Come on dad. Can’t you see I’m playing with my computer?” The guy talks to me and he’s working with his computer. These guys are genius. You know, they grow up with like walking, right? But he’s looking at me. I could have given him their healthcare site. He would have done it for nothing and it would have been better than what they have.
 So remember, come on, dad. I’m busy, dad. What do you want? What do you want, dad?
 Barron. Barron. Barron. Barron.
 Barron, woah. Wow, he’s going to like that. He’s a good boy. He’s a tall boy. I’ll tell you that. Just turned 13. He’s up there. I’m saying, “Hi Barron. How are you doing?” But they’re great with the computers. They spent 5 billion.
 Okay. It was going to cost 50. It was going to cost five. It was going to cost 50. Then it was going to .. What was the final number? Five hundreds. The number that they spent, $5 billion. Right? It still doesn’t work. They spent $5 billion. Right? And they spent $500 million on all of the problems it caused and we’ve really straightened it out, but it’s still lousy healthcare, Obamacare. And it’s really not Obamacare anymore because when you get rid of the individual mandate, it’s no longer Obamacare but we’re going to terminate it. We’re going to give you your preexisting a hundred per- otherwise I won’t do it. We’re going to give you brand new preexisting and we’re going to have a great healthcare that’s much less expensive.
 And we’re fighting to stop surprise medical bill and Barron’s is going to be very happy. I signed an executive order imposing price transparency because when providers are required to show their prices, those same prices fall very fast. You know, a man that does this very professionally is great, into the healthcare business and you have to be careful when you say it, but you know it was just a very strong statement.
 But he said, “Sir, price transparency in hospitals. Where you can bid it out and you can look at the prices. Right now you can’t see. If you go to a hospital, they won’t even tell you how much it’s going to cost. They operate and then they’ll give you a bill and you’ll say, “Oh my god, I had no idea it could be.” They take blood. We have one person, blood $39. Another place, the exact same thing, $2500. Take blood, a blood test. One is $39 one, is $2500. The same test. Maybe the $39 test is better. Who the hell knows? But it’s crazy. Price transparency and he looks at me. He goes, and he’s a real pro. One of the top in the country. He said, “Sir,” and nobody wanted to do it because it’s a little bit controversial and a lot of the drug companies don’t exactly love it. The hospitals don’t love it, but I got to do what’s right for you. The people, I don’t care, I’m not. I got to do it.
 But he looked at me. And this is why I did it. It was one phrase. You know, do you ever do where you’re not going to do something? And then somebody hits you with a perfect phrase. He said, “Sir, price transparency is bigger than healthcare.” I said, “What do you mean by that?” He said, “You will see numbers that far outweigh healthcare, hospitals, doctors.” He said, “You’ll be able to price out everything. You’ll be able to see costs.” He said, “Price transparency.” You know, people you’ve heard about this for 15, 20 years. No president has the guts to do it. Probably means I won’t get campaign contributions from certain people, but I’m not going to get them anyway.
 What the hell difference does that make? I don’t want them. I don’t want them. I got to do what’s right. You know, we’re here for a short period of time. Even if it’s a long period, it’s still a short period and we’ve got to do so. Price transparency is a big deal. He said it’s bigger than healthcare. Think of that. Bigger than healthcare. So let’s see what happens. But that’ll kick in. Unfortunately, that kicks in after the election because we’re going through the final stages. We going through a statutory process, unfortunately. So think of it, we’re going to win.
 But let’s say the fake news could give me enough phony stories, enough bad stuff that we don’t make it. The new president will get all the credit for price transparency and he won’t even know what the hell it is. And I took the heat. Isn’t that something? But we’re going to win. We got to win for that reason alone.
 We’ve approved a record number of affordable new generic drugs, which are just as good as the name brand drugs, but a fraction of the cost. And that was another one. Tremendous political pressure. Think of it. You own Bayer aspirin. You own all these name name brand drugs that are making so much money. And then the guy comes along said, “I want to make 20 forms of aspirin.” They’re exactly the same. Exactly. But they don’t have a big name on it. Exactly as good. I don’t say better. I don’t say worse. They’re exactly the same. You know, people still, they want to go out and buy the name. You know? I do. I do. You know? Because it’s just because we’re stupid. No, it’s true. They’re exactly the same. We’re approving so many of the generic drugs, a record number. Nobody’s ever approved so much. The drug companies hate it.
 They hate it. Never happened like what we’re doing. We also took down the trial periods from 12 years down to five or six years. They’d have a new drug. The thing was obsolete by the time it got approved. We’ve passed a really spectacular thing that they’ve been trying to get for 40 some odd years. Right to try. So you don’t have to now go if you get, hopefully nobody in this room has those kind of problems. Right to try.
 And so now you go and you sign a waiver and you get everything. It’s great. If you’re terminally ill. If you’re very, very sick, you’re not going to make it. And you know why they didn’t do it? They wouldn’t approve it because they didn’t want to be sued. And they said, “No, this could be dangerous.” They said, “The people are terminally ill, they’re going to die.
 Let them use the experimental drugs. Don’t wait because they have another four or five years before they can come onto the market.” And it turned out we are having such unbelievable results. And you know what else? Some of those drug companies are now like it. That they fought me like crazy because it’s really showing if it works there, it’s really showing that it works. It’s pretty amazing. Right to try.
 I hope you don’t have to use it. We’re combating the opioid epidemic. Drug overdose deaths have declined for the first time in nearly 31 years and I’ve launched [inaudible 01:35:30] and this is really something, brand new initiatives combating kidney disease and combating Alzheimer’s disease. We’ve made a lot of progress. We’ve made a lot of progress, Sheldon and we’re pursuing new advances in the neonatal research to care for America’s youngest patients, our babies, and breaking all records in so doing.
 All of the radical Democrats in the presidential debates have declared their unlimited support for extreme late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb right up until the very moment of birth. This is why in my state of the union address, did you like it?
 Good. It’s a different kind of address. You know, we can go lots of different ways, right? Presidential, not presidential. I was presidential. Totally. You’d have about three people standing here, but I asked Congress to prohibit late term abortion of babies because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.
 The Democrat party is the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, blatant corruption, and the total obliteration of your very, very important second amendment.
 The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and the late great Abraham Lincoln, which everybody forgot. Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background, every community, and every single walk of life. We are the party of boundless optimism, excitement, energy, and enthusiasm. We are wealthy, right? Are we enthusiastic?
 You know how many of these I’ve done in the last four days? People say, “Where the hell do you get your energy?” I say, “Well, the truth is I like what I do and if we weren’t getting the results, I wouldn’t like it.” If we weren’t getting the results. If I didn’t see the results, I wouldn’t like it at all. We’re welcoming Americans of all parties and political persuasions to join our incredible movement to make America great again.
 We’re a very big party. We are the party of big ideas for the future. Republicans are fighting for school choice because no parent should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school.
 I passed criminal justice reform to give former prisoners a second chance at life. Was never going to happen. We got it done. This could not have been done by anyone but the Republican party and ourselves. You know the Democrats have tried for years. They couldn’t get it done. We got it done. To uphold the rule of law. We are confirmed and this is something they say. Most important thing you can do, judges. I say most important thing is defense. Second is judges.
 A record number of 217 federal judges who will interpret the constitution as written. And we have appointed two great new Supreme court justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem and we recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. We have invested $2.2 trillion to rebuild the United States military, including more than $130 million for Nellis air force base right here. And we just created the sixth branch of the American armed forces, the Space Force, 72 years, 72 years.
 The air force was 72 years ago. We just did a branch. It’s a big deal, isn’t it? Think of it. A branch, the army, the air force. Think of it. We did a branch. For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the people of Nevada. At stake in our present battle is the survival of our nation. If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November of 2020 November 3rd. November 3rd. Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all. With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity. Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane and lawful system of immigration. We will continue to enact new trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that very beautiful phrase, “Made in the USA.”
 We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic within nine years in America.
 And we will land the first woman on the moon and become the first nation in the world to plant its flag on Mars. We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.
 And that is under siege in case you haven’t noticed. You know, your second amendment is under siege. Just don’t worry. Long as I’m here, they’re not touching it. Above all, we will never stop fighting for this.
 So true. But we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America, we support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes and they are heroes. We love them, of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.
 And we live by the words of our national motto, in God we trust. From Carson city to Reno to right here in Las Vegas, we stand on the shoulders of red blooded American patriots who poured out their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and to defend our great, beautiful, lovely freedom, freedom, freedom. Freedom.
 Nevada was founded by pioneers and prospectors, miners and cowboys who tamed the frontier, raised the mighty Hoover dam. That’s a beauty. Transformed the barren desert into a shining oasis, lit up the lights of the Las Vegas strip and help to make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth. And we are making it greater than ever before. Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of Nevada, the best is yet to come together. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, Nevada. Thank you, Las Vegas. We love Las Vegas. Thank you everybody. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to Vice President Pence. He’s a good guy. We’ve done a great job together. And Merry Christmas, Michigan. Thank you, Michigan. What a victory we had in Michigan. What a victory was that. One of the greats. Was that the greatest evening? But I’m thrilled to be here with thousands of hardworking patriots as we celebrate the miracle of Christmas, the greatness of America and the glory of God. Thank you very much.
 And did you notice that everybody is saying Merry Christmas again? Did you notice? Saying Merry Christmas. I remember when I first started this beautiful trip, this beautiful journey, I just said to the First Lady, “You are so lucky. I took you on this fantastic journey. It’s so much fun. They want to impeach you. They want to do worse than that.” By the way, by the way, by the way, it doesn’t really feel like we’re being impeached. The country is doing better than ever before. We did nothing wrong. We did nothing wrong. And we have tremendous support in the Republican Party like we’ve never had before. Nobody’s ever had this kind of support.
 But this sacred season, our country is thriving and it’s thriving truly like it has never, it has never happened before to the extent what’s happening now. And by the way, your state, because of us, not because of local government, but because of us, because of the job that we’ve done. Because I understand she’s not fixing those potholes. That’s what the word is. It was all about roads and they want to raise those gasoline taxes on you. We don’t want to do that. But she’s not fixing the potholes. But Michigan’s had the best year it’s ever had. Best year it’s ever had. And that’s because we have auto companies expanding and thriving and they’re coming in from Japan and they’re coming in from a lot of other places. Look what’s happening. And you know, I don’t know if you know this, but probably 10 years ago I was honored. I was the Man Of The Year by I think somebody, whoever. I was the Man Of The Year in Michigan. Can you believe it? Long time.
 And that was long before I ever decided to do this. I was happy. I had a beautiful life. What the hell did I do this for? But look how we’re doing. Do we love it? I love it. But anyway, I was the Man Of The Year and probably close to 10 years ago and I came to Michigan. He said, “You’re still the Man Of The Year.” Thank you. Who said that? Thank you. So I came in and I remember the speech so well. I said, “Why are you allowing them to steal your car companies? Why are you allowing them to go to Mexico and to go from China where they come in from China, they build them in China, they sell them into our country with no tax and you lose your jobs, you lose your factories, the companies leave and you get nothing. Why are they lying?” I asked that a long time ago and we stopped it. We’ve stopped it. And you see that.
 And we just made the USMCA. We’re getting rid of NAFTA, which I think is the worst trade deal ever. And it’s very exciting. It’s a great deal. It’s a great deal. It’s going to stop exactly what we were just talking about. It makes it very, very prohibitive. They can do it, but they’ve got to pay a hell of a big price to do it. And history has proven that stops them. But we have a great USMCA that we negotiated with Mexico, with Canada. Now, from the standpoint of the farmers, you know what’s going on. We had tremendous trade barriers in Canada. We had attacks on dairy products, 297% tariff, nobody talked about it, with Canada. And we had some really bad things with Mexico. We now have a wonderful deal. And if we didn’t have a good deal, you know what I would have done what? What? I would have put tariffs on both countries and that would have been it, right? That would have been it. Unfortunately the deal’s been sitting with Nancy Pelosi for a long time and what happened? And she had a lot of pressure, especially from manufacturing areas, farm areas, a lot of pressure to sign it. So here’s what happens. So I get along with labor. I had a lot of union labor vote for me, tremendous amount of labor. In New York where I come from, we have a lot of unions. And that’s okay. That’s fine. So we left a little stuff for the union because we figured to get it signed, we’ll give a little bit and we did it and we have one great deal. And now you have the Democrats trying to take credit for this deal and that’s okay. Whatever it takes. For seven months, it sits. They don’t do anything. We give. And by the way, I spoke to the unions the day before I say, “Fellows, you got to get it done.” And union labor loves me and I love you too sir. I love you too sir. So we have a great deal with Mexico, with Canada. And it is true. I say it out loud because I say it to them right now. If they ever wanted to break the deal, that’s okay. If somebody wants to break a deal with me, you always have to have an alternative, right? And this country, the deals we made, we did a deal with South Korea. That’s great. We did a deal with Japan, 40 billion dollar deal with Japan. It was just a little piece of a deal. Okay? That was a piece of a deal. And I said to Japan, “Look, you got to make this deal or we’re going to put a 20% tariff on the cars. And that’s more money than anything we’re talking about.”
 That’s all right. That’s all right. That’s all right. Get her out.
 Oh well. You’re about to hear the greatest speech you’ve ever heard. And that’s going to be the publicity because all the fake news back there will say massive riot… Massive riots. Fake news. But seriously, look, look, look, they won’t say it. They won’t say it, because when we have protesters all in favor, they don’t talk about it, but there’s a slob. There’s a real slob. Wait, wait a minute. She’ll get hell when she gets back home with mom. But she made… Look, she screams a little bit. And you know what I like to do? Avoid them. Because I’ll tell you the big problem. I could hardly hear her. What happens is all of you people go crazy. Look, look, look, and the place.
 Okay, so there’s one disgusting person who made… Wait, wait, who made a… I wouldn’t say this, but made a horrible gesture with the wrong finger right? Now they won’t say that, the fake news, they won’t say it. If one of us did that, it would be like the biggest story ever. I think it’s terrible. And I’ll tell you the other thing, I don’t know who the security company is, but the police came up, but they want to be so politically correct so they don’t grab her wrist lightly and get her out. They say, “Oh, would you please come? Would you please come with me?” Sure. “Ma’am, would you?” And then she gives the guy the finger and he, “Oh, Oh.” You got to get a little bit stronger than that, folks.
 I hate to see it. I hate to see it. But of course the guy’s afraid that he’ll grab her wrist lightly and he’ll be sued for the rest of his life, that you’ve destroyed her life. But I think it’s a terrible thing. And here’s what happens though, these fakers back there, they’re the most dishonest people in the world. They’ll go back. This is one person who made a horrible gesture only because the security man let her have so much time. And usually I have to say the police do an incredible job. They do [inaudible 00:12:10]. And they…
 (silence). Making another group of tariffs, seven and a half percent. This gives us a lot of currency to do the phase two deal, which they want to start, but we’re taking in billions of dollars and to help the farmers who were targeted, 16 billion and 12 billion the previous year, helps the farmers. So you know what we do, out of that big check that we get, all that money flows into the treasury. Out of the big check, we gave the farmers 16 billion dollars and 12 billion for the previous year.
 And you know, the incredible thing, and I was with a lot of farmers. I was with a group of 36 farmers at the White House. You know what they said to me? I said, “Don’t worry about it. We’re going to take care of you guys.” And I used a bad word. You know what word I used? We’re going to get you a subsidy. And they said this two years ago, I said, “How much were you targeted for?” This was the first year. “12 billion, sir.” The second year was 16. They were target. That’s what they didn’t get from China. So I said, “It’s all right, we’re going to give you a subsidy of the same and we’re going to take it out of the tariffs and we’re going to have billions and billions of dollars left over.” And they said, “Sir, we don’t want money. We just want a level playing field.” I’ve never seen that before. I’ve never seen that before.
 It’s true. They just want to be able to have a level playing field. I could, because I sit at a lot of those meetings and whether it’s countries or whether it’s companies, everybody wants money. The farmers just wanted a level playing field. But we took good care of our farmers, that I can tell you. And we made the largest ever investment in our military. 738 billion dollars, all made in the USA. Right? [inaudible 00:00:14:32].
 So we will have invested in our military, since I’m here, which is less than three years. Our military, by the way, in all due respect to the previous two administrations, our military was depleted. It was depleted. It was in bad shape. We had fighter jets that were 35 years old. We had planes that were 60 years… You heard where the father flew them, the grandfather flew them, and now the young son comes in. We’ve got the best equipment in the world now. Spent two and a half trillion dollars, made in the USA. Two and a half trillion. We will shortly. That’ll be all finished. We’re going to have the greatest… Now we have the best planes. We’re going to have the best ships. We’re building a lot of ships now. We’re building the most powerful weapons in the world. Now, we don’t want to even talk about it. We never want to use them. But you know, the way we’re not going to have to use them is if we have them.
 We’re building submarines, the power of which nobody’s ever seen before. Nobody’s ever seen before. It’s funny, we have these companies come in. I like to make good deals. You like to make good deals. That’s what we do, right? So these really countries that come in, prime ministers, presidents, sometimes dictators, those we can’t deal with too much. “Sir, we’d like to buy a nuclear submarine.” I say, “No thanks.” I turn them all down. You have no idea how many people… But we’re building some of the… They’re the most powerful weapons ever made by man or womankind. I say mankind and womankind.
 See in the old days, in the old days, I would say mankind. Now I say mankind, womankind. This way, I don’t get in trouble with our friends. But we have the most powerful in the world and what we’re doing is incredible. What we’re doing with missiles, with rockets, with everything. And you know what, again, we don’t want to ever have to use it, but we will never have anything like what’s mostly been built. We have the F-35. It’s stealth. And I was at one of the areas where they’re displaying it and I went up to the pilots and honestly, they’re better looking than Tom Cruise. Okay? Good movie. Good guy too, by the way. The face is equal, maybe slightly better. The body’s bigger and stronger. They can definitely… Because like [inaudible 00:17:23]. They can definitely fight. They’re the real deal. These guys, so good looking. I said, “You could be a movie star. Go to Hollywood.” “No sir. I like doing what I’m doing.”
 So I said to these guys, you going to see, just like central casting, I said, I said, “Fellas, how good is this plane?” They said, “Sir, it’s great.”
 “Because the enemy can’t see it.” That helps. Stealth. It’s actually called super stealth. So I said, “You mean they can’t see, so you shoot at them but they can’t…” He said, “They have no idea where we are, sir.” I said, “That sounds good to me.” Nobody does it. Nobody can do it. We have the whole thing and we bought in a lot of those planes, we bought in a lot of great stuff. And I won’t tell you the story, but very early on I thought we were going to have a problem someplace, and one of the generals came up to me and said, “Sir, don’t go. Don’t do it.”
 “We don’t have the ammunition.” And I said two things. I never want to hear a President. Right? We never want to have a President hear that again, nor do we want a President to have to go through the crap that we were going through back then. But, another thing we did, which to me is such an incredible thing to have done. It’s such an honor. So our last US Armed Forces, the last branch was the Air Force, right? That was many, many decades ago. We are now building and we have now gotten funding for the sixth branch of the United States Armed Forces, The Space Force. So I’ll be able to tell my kids someday and everybody else, “See that Space Force? That was my baby.” And you think that was easy? That’s not easy. Because you have Democrats that do not like our military. They do not like our military.
 And we did something yesterday, because for three years I would see people that run… Incredible people, the heads of the Historically Black Colleges and Universities in the country. And every year they’d come in and they’d be looking for help. They needed help and they do need help with it and it’s great and they do an incredible job. So many great schools, but they need help. And every year they’d have to come and come. I got to know them actually. I said, “The only bad thing is you won’t see me too much anymore.” Because we just provided record funding for a nation’s Historically Black Colleges and Universities. And it’s longterm, they’re not going to have to come. So I said, “Look, we could do it where we do it every year or we’ll do what we have. What do you want?” They said, “Let us just have it.” So we’ll miss them. But they are great people. They’ve done an incredible job.
 And our extraordinary jobs boom, which created another 266,000 jobs last month, and then you add the undercount from the previous two months, you’re close to 300,000 jobs. And they said, if you’re a business watcher which I am, I love watching business, but they said they were guessing, could be 70,000, could be 80,000, maybe 90, maybe 110, somebody said. Then the number comes out, 266,000 with an adjustment. Remember about four months ago when we had one little period, right? We had one little period where there was a little downturn. They said, “Oh, Oh, we think we’re going into a recession.” I said, “Don’t worry about it.”
 “We think we’re going into a recession.” They were willing to lose their wealth. They were willing for this stocks and whatever the hell they own, what do you guys own back there? Let it go. They’ll go bust. They don’t care. Anything to get rid of us. Not me, us. And you know what? Then all of a sudden, and now for the last couple of weeks, we’ve set brand new records in the history of the various stock markets. So, as of yesterday, we’ve had 133 record days in the stock market now, and that’s in less than three years. So when I see that I don’t care because I don’t… I’m not allowed to have stock. I can’t have stock. They consider it a conflict of interest and that I can understand. I agree. I can.
 But you know what? I’ll tell you what. What I see, I see tremendous job growth because we’re setting records. But you know what I also see? The 401ks where people are up 90%, they’re up 97%, they’re up 82%. I tell you the story all the time. I mean, I have people coming up to me, and a man came up, a policeman. I’ve told this story, but I’ve had many, so many times, but this guy in particular, because it was early and that was a year ago. That was a long time ago. Right now it’s much higher than that. But he said, “Sir, I want to thank you. My wife thinks I’m a loser. All my life, we never did well with the 401ks, with stocks. Everything I invested, I’m up 72%, sir. She thinks I’m a financial genius. She’s so in love with me. She so in love.”
 He said, “She said, ‘Darling, I think you’re one of the greatest investors. Why don’t you do this professionally?’ And I don’t even know what I’m doing, sir. I just have all these stocks.” So I just wanted to tell you, I look at a 401k, who has 401ks here? So that’s what I see. I don’t care about the rich ones. I care about everybody. I care. I care about everybody actually.
 Ford motor company just announced that it is investing 1.5 billion dollars into auto factories in the Detroit area, creating another 3000 Michigan jobs. And that’s on top of the many other investments we’ve gotten from Japanese companies, car companies, and other companies. But they’re all coming in and a lot of them are coming to Michigan. And I say, “Hey, go to Michigan.” Sometimes they’ll go south and that’s okay, whatever. I want them in this country. But ideally I want to fill them up. We’re doing so well in Michigan with the auto companies. Now you’re back. You’re back. So, you’re back. Very proud of you. Very proud of you.
 But while we’re creating jobs, fighting for Michigan workers, and achieving numbers that you’ve never seen before, incredible victories for the American people are happening. The radical left in Congress is consumed with hatred and envy and rage. You see what’s going on? I’ll tell you, these people are crazy. You ever hear, “It’s the economy, stupid.” You know that was Clinton’s saying. If you have a good economy. I have the greatest economy in the history of this country and nobody talks about it. Nobody talks about it. If you’re a Democrat, they say, ” Oh, it’s the economy…” If the economy’s any good.
 And let me just tell you a little secret. If crooked Hillary would’ve won, your economy would have crashed. You were going down. The regulations were taking it down. The taxes were taking it down, instead of being up 92% or whatever you’re up, a lot, you would have been down, you would have been at less than half. It was crashing. For all those people that would say, “Oh, it’s the Obama…” Let me tell you something. You were dying. And if you look at that first period of a couple of months, it was a disaster, but it was heading south. And as sure as you’re standing, and I’m sorry we couldn’t get you seats, we didn’t have any room.
 And by the way, 20,000 people outside had to leave. You know? It’s so cold outside we told them, “Don’t worry about a screen, go home, go home and watch.” But we had, this is about a 5,500 seat arena. And I said to my people, “Why so small?” Are we spoiled? I watch these guys come in like Biden, he has a big rally and they get 93 people show up. No, it’s true. I don’t understand it. And did you see the new polls from USA Today came out? I’m killing everybody. And they hate me. USA Today hates me. But there’s a poll, we’re beating everybody.
 But, so Biden has this rally, they’ve got 200 seats, but only a small number of people. So you know what they do? They set up a round table. So think of these people. They come in, they think they’re going to listen to the speech, they end up sitting on a round table discussing… They must’ve been happy, right? We don’t have enough room for round tables. I’m sorry folks. No, they set up a round table but I think we’re doing great. And how do you beat what we’ve done? With the economy, with our great vets, with choice. You’ve finally got choice. They’ve been trying to get it for almost 50 years.
 Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
 And these people back here? Your seat or stand is better. Right? But you know what? They’re going to be much more famous because the cameras can’t see you. They can only see them. And the other thing, the cameras, do you ever notice, I go to these stadiums, 25, 30,000 people. They never show the crowd. You know why? Because they don’t want to have… If crazy Pocahontas, if crazy Pocahontas goes to the middle of Central Park or whatever. She’s in Manhattan. You got me. And people, I mean, I could have, I could have Baron Trump go into Central Park and he’d get a crowd that would be just as… He’s 13. He’d get a bigger crowd.
 But if she has the crowd, “Oh, these crowds are so big.” I’ve had crowds over the last couple of weeks. We went to different Pennsylvania, Florida. But I mean thousands and thousands of people can’t get into these NBA arenas, right? Big arenas. And we set records at everyone because we use the floor. Thank you. I appreciate it. But we use the floor, right? The basketball court. So we set records at every arena. They never even mention the crowds. They never mention the crowds. It’s sort of amazing. You know what? I don’t think we’ve ever had an empty seat from the time I came down the escalator. That’s a long time ago. I don’t think we’ve ever had an empty seat. Now what the crooked media does though, if you got like over here, look how packed it is and there’s thousands outside, but I… “Please go home. You’re going to catch pneumonia.” But here’s the thing. If this man and that beautiful woman happened to get up because they want to go to the bathroom, those cameras will turn to those two seats and they’ll say “Trump wasn’t able to fill up the arena.” I always get nervous when I see some… I know they’re coming back. Nobody ever leaves our speeches. Because is there a better place to be in the world than a Trump rally?
 But every time I see a man get up, I see a beautiful woman with a baby and they’re getting up. The baby’s going crazy and they’re getting up. They’re going to take it… But I know they’re going to be right back. And I say, “Fill those two seats. I don’t want them to see it.” Because they’ll say, “Couldn’t fill up the arena.” These are truly dishonest people. After three years of sinister witch hunts, hoaxes, scams, tonight the House Democrats are trying to nullify the ballots of tens of millions of patriotic Americans. Capped off with one of the greatest election evenings in history. Was that the greatest? Remember when they all said, remember when they all said, “No, no. You can’t win Michigan. You can’t.”
 Then I went, I did one in Grand Rapids, right? Grand Rapids. We had 32,000 people that night. It was one o’clock in the morning. That means it was Election Day when I started speaking. Hillary, Barack Obama, Michelle Obama, and Bill Clinton, they did an emergency trip. They did an emergency trip to Michigan at six o’clock. They got here at prime time. They started to speak. She had 500 people. I got here at one o’clock in the morning the next day, which is now Election Day. How many people were there? 32,000 people outside, inside. It was the last speech of Michigan. And they say, “Well, sir, it’s very hard to win Michigan.” I said, “Why would it be hard?” Here’s the beautiful thing. Everything I told you I’ve done, but much more so. I said I was going to bring car companies back. I said I was going to bring in… I just hope you people know that. I just hope you know it.
 But I’ll never forget that night. And in all fairness to Bill Clinton, he used to be a friend of mine until I ran for office. I like him, I like him. But he told, you know the way they tried to shut him out, right? Because he’s a pro. He’s an instinct guy, right? He’s instinct. He doesn’t need…
 Right? Because he’s a pro. He’s an instinct guy, right? He’s instinct. He doesn’t need polling companies. Who the hell wants him? You know, if you want a polling company, pick up the newspaper. The problem is the newspaper polls are more fake than the news they write. They write fake polls. It’s true, they write fake polls. You call them suppression polls. You read them and you get depressed, because it looks like you’re doing badly. They do that. I think it’s almost worse than what they write, and you can’t get much worse than what they write. So what happens is Bill Clinton said to Crooked Hillary, his very dishonest wife, Crooked Hillary. Do you think he calls her Crooked Hillary? He might. Maybe he just calls her crooked?
 He said, “Crooked, I’m telling you. Crooked, I don’t like what I’m seeing in Michigan. I don’t like what I’m seeing in Wisconsin.” He said, “I took the trip to Wisconsin and I’ll tell you what, they had those Trump/Pence signs all the way to the convention area, every lawn, every loan. I don’t like Wisconsin.” And then he said, “Oh, don’t worry about it.” What the hell does he know? They told him, “What do you know?” Remember, they shut him out at the … They didn’t want him talking. He was right. I mean, I don’t want to cause any problems in the family, but he was right. But he talked about Wisconsin. Then he talked about Michigan. He said, “Crooked, I’m telling you, Crooked, I don’t like what I’m seeing in Michigan. I was in Michigan and I’m telling you, they had those damn signs. I saw some houses where they had four of them on one lawn, and two of them on the car.”
 And he said, “You horrible human being. You’d better start listening to me, because you’re going to get your ass whooped? And you know what happened? You know what happened? She didn’t listen, fortunately. And she didn’t come to Michigan enough. And she didn’t come to Wisconsin, I think at all, right? Because her polling data looked good. It looked good to me, too. Every time I went there with these crowds. So we won Wisconsin. We won Michigan and the great Ronna McDaniel … where is Ronna? Where is Ronna? Ronna, she was so horrible. I didn’t know her, Ronna McDaniel, and she was so aggressive. She kept calling and said, “Could you please come out to Michigan?” I said, “Who the hell are you?” And I said, “What do you mean, another trip?” So anyway, I made, we had these big crowds. I made it again. Then finally I said, two weeks out, I said, “Ronna, no more. We’re going to win it or we’re not.”
 “Okay. I promise.” Two days later I get a call, “Sir, could you please come out to Michigan one more time?” It’s true. So, I said, “Ah.” She was the campaign chairman in Michigan. So I said, “Okay.” And then I got the ultimate call, 6:00 in the evening for this final deal in Grand Rapids. “Sir, could you come to Michigan tonight?” And I thought, I was just about finished. I went to a last great state, and I said, “It’s over.” Now I sit back and I watch, and let’s see what happens, right? But she said, “Could you come to Michigan?” I said, that is the most aggressive human being I’ve ever met. And we did it. And we won Michigan. And the word is that we’re much higher right now in the polls than we were ever in 2016 in Michigan. You better remember when you walk into … you know, it’s November 3rd this time, November 3rd. By the way though, that evening, that incredible evening in November, one of the biggest nights in the history of television. You never hear them say it, so I might as well. That election … and my debates … you see their debates are dying. Who wants to watch Buttigieg, Buttigieg? Buttigieg! You know that you pronounce it they say … I heard some guy saying, “No, no, because it’s an unpronounceable name.” That’s why they call him Mayor Pete, right? Mayor Pete. Mayor Pete. Mayor Pete! I’ve had you up to here, Mayor Pete. No, Buttigieg is leading. How does … no, you say it this way. You say it … they call him Mayor Pete, because nobody can pronounce his last name.
 That’s the only … people think it says … by the way, you know what? I’m not going to say bad things about him. You know why? I’d love him to win. I thought I knocked off Pocahontas. I did it a year too early, a year too early. I give her credit, she then started to come back. I don’t think she’s going to make it though. She’s gasping. She’s gasping for air. But I saw them pronouncing Buttigieg, and they said, “Here’s what you do, boot edge edge.” Say, “Edge, like the edge of a building. Edge edge,” Buttigieg. Alfred E. Newman. You got to be older to know what that means.
 But congressional Democrats are directly attacking 2.3 million Michigan voters who rose up in 2016, won the state, and now the Democrats are very upset. They want to get Michigan back. They just don’t know how to do it, because they didn’t do a thing for Michigan. They didn’t do anything for Michigan. All they did was take away your companies and let them go to Mexico and other places. You know, I don’t know if you know it, Mexico has 32% of your car business. You know that, right? Not because of me. They’re not moving. But Mexico has … 32% of our car business moved to Mexico. Can you believe this? Before I got there, but that’s what I used to talk about. I said, when I was honored that night, I said, “How do you let this happen? How do you let all these companies leave?” It used to go, … it’s probably maybe the single biggest reason I ran for president. It might be the … and I had a lot of them. Immigration, I had a lot of them, but that may be the single biggest.
 With today’s illegal unconstitutional and partisan impeachment, the do nothing Democrats, and they are do nothing … all they want to do is focus on this, what they could be doing … are declaring their deep hatred and disdain for the American voter. This lawless, partisan impeachment is a political suicide march for the Democrat Party. Have you seen my polls in the last four weeks? It’s crazy. It’s crazy. You know why? Because people, we have an election right down the road. I announced three months ago that I’m running, right? I’ll give you a little clue. I announced because I figured once I announce, they’d never impeach, nobody would be so stupid.
 But they’d been trying to impeach me from day one. They’ve been trying to impeach me from before I ran, okay? Because if you remember when I ran, I went immediately to number one, never came off number one. We had center stage from day one in the debates. So we had, I don’t know, 14, 15 debates. We had a total of 18, actually. People forgot there was one that they never talk about it, but that’s okay. But we had 18 people, and I was center stage. And I said, “Wait a minute, this is no good.” I want odd numbers, because of your center stage, if you have a 10 that means two people are in the middle. So I said, “Make it 11 or make it nine, or I’m not showing up.” And generally they did it, because we were way ahead from the beginning. But I made a lot of great friends out of that group, and many of them are good friends today. Although you wouldn’t know it based on the … they say that was the meanest … that was a pretty mean primary, you got to say. Wasn’t that fun? I liked it.
 Through their depraved actions today, Crazy Nancy Pelosi’s House Democrats have branded themselves with an eternal mark of shame, and it really is. It’s a disgrace. Democrat lawmakers do not believe you have the right to select your own president. They think that the Washington swamp, which we believe it or not, it ain’t easy, because they got so much stacked, including these guys. You know what? These guys are apart of the Democrat Party. They are a part of it. You might as well call them Democrats.
 No, the media … look, look, I know. You know, it’s hard for somebody to know if you’re not the subject, because how do you know the New York Times is totally dishonest, or the Washington Post? Or, ABC is so bad. CBS, so bad. NBC, I made a lot of money for NBC with The Apprentice, a lot of money, a lot. Plus we had the number one show a lot, and they had nothing in the top 10 except a thing called The Apprentice. And they treat me so bad. I brilliantly said, “Well, one group I know will treat me well, NBC” I call it [Commicast 00:42:00]. You know, it’s owned by Commicast. They’re just as bad as CNN, or they’re just as bad as MSNBC. And by the way, CNN and MSNBC, their ratings are down the tubes. It’s great. I love it. I love it.
 But they think the Washington swamp should be able to veto the results of an election. That’s what they think. There’s never been a time like this. Think of it, you have the greatest economy in the history of the world. Other countries come to see me, all of their leaders, and they say, “Sir, ” first thing, “Sir, congratulations on your economy. We’re trying to do the same thing. Congratulations, sir.” And these guys don’t like talking about it. And if they do, they say, “Obama did it. Oh, Obama, Obama.”
 Remember Obama said, “You will never be president. He will never be president?” Then remember he said, “I will consider it a personal front if you allow him to be president?” And then I became president. He wasn’t so happy. And in all fairness, he campaigned harder than Crooked Hillary, because he had more strength. I mean, I go to these places, Secret Service, they take me. I haven’t seen a lobby in three years. It’s true. I go through basements. I pass compactor plants. I know more about compactors from this job. I don’t see lobbies. I say “Fellows, you think you could ever maybe take me through a lobby?”
 But I’ll tell you what. I go upstairs, downstairs, all around. They’re taking me up three flights, go down one. I said, “Are we almost there?”
 “Yes, sir, another four flights.” And I say, “You think Hillary could do this? I don’t think so.” They’d bring her back home. She wants to go to sleep. And now I hear she wants to run again. Wouldn’t that be great? Oh. Thank you. Thank you. Oh would we love that? You think the Democrats are screwed up? Wait until that happens. Wouldn’t that be … Oh, there’s my guy.
 Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up.
 Well look, based on the FBI report, you just saw what happened with the IG, where they came out with the FBI. Based on that, you know what? I never stopped you. But now, think of what they did. Think of what they did. Think of how dishonest it all was. They shouldn’t even be allowed to have an impeachment, because it was based on dishonesty. It was based on illegality. She went out, and they paid for a fake dossier. They gave money to foreigners to write a fake dossier, totally disproven, totally fake. The FBI then took that fake dossier and they used it in the FISA Court to get approval to spy on my campaign. And if we were Democrats, they would’ve been in jail two years ago. It’s a disgrace. Think of what they did. So they use this fake dossier, and they brought it before this big deal court. It’s a big deal, the FISA Court. And they said this stuff, and they lied about it, because Comey, who’s another beauty … did I do a great job when I fired his ass? What a great job.
 Oh no, they had bad plans. No, I did a great thing. That was like throwing a rock at a hornet’s nest. Did that place explode? And then we learned about Lisa Page, and her wonderful lover, Peter Strzok. I love you Lisa. I love you more than anybody in the world. I love you more than anybody in the world. It causes problems with the wife, but we won’t talk about that. Those tapes didn’t work well. No, how about those statements, right? And then they say, “In all fairness,” … I really liked the report, but how does the Inspector General say … because don’t forget, he was appointed by Obama. So I’m not knocking him because he gave us a lot of nuggets, but we had a lot of those nuggets. How does the Inspector General say, “You have these horrible … he’s going to lose. Isn’t he? He’s going to lose, or she’s going to win 100 million.” Did you see all the zeros? It was like … I’m blinking. I says, “I think it’s 100.”
 “He’s going to lose 100 to one. Isn’t he Peter? I love you so much, Peter. I’ve never loved anyone like you. He’s going to lose 100 million to one, Peter, right?”
 “That’s right. He’s going to lose 100 million to one.” But there’s no bias. How about the insurance policy? To me, the greatest. Just in case she loses, we have an insurance policy! We’re in the insurance policy right now folks! We’ve been in it for three years, that’s what they meant. I mean the insurance policy is on an artificial respirator, because we’re doing awfully well. And I’ll tell you something, Rush Limbaugh said it. Sean Hannity said it. Laura Ingram said it. Tucker said it. Ainsley said it, but a lot of people have said it. They said, “There’s nobody in the world that could have handled that stuff that happened, and still created one of the greatest economies, and done more than any other president ever before in the first three years.”
 I understand that. I understand that, but it’s my life, very unfair to my family. I have to say this very, very unfair to my family. What they put my family through is a disgrace. Me, it’s my life. It’s fine. I do. But you know what? What they put my family through is a disgrace, and they ought to be ashamed, and we should get apologies all over the place. So yesterday I sent Pelosi a letter denouncing and condemning her party’s outrageous abusive power. That’s what it is. They have nothing. They’re the ones that should be impeached, every one of them. I mean you got this guy, Schiff. He makes up a statement, and he goes in front of Congress where he has immunity, and he makes up a statement from me that’s totally fictitious, totally out of thin air. The worst statement I’ve ever heard. Many people saw it. I had a person two weeks ago that said, “I didn’t love the statement you made. I said, “Really? Didn’t you read the transcripts?” I always say, “Read the transcript. But didn’t you read it”
 “No, no. I heard it on television. I watched Adam Schiff.” He made it up. I then sent him the transcript. He said, “Oh, now I feel better. That’s perfect.” I call it perfect. He called it perfect. Everyone calls it, if you read it. But here’s the thing. He makes up this statement, and it finished. Didn’t he have eight quid pro quos? Eight. Could you imagine, you’re dealing with a country, and you say eight times that you’ve got to do something. The first time they say, “Well.” The second time they say, “That’s strange.” Third time they say, “What’s wrong?” You said eight times? Eight times. They’d have you arrested. They’d have you put into an insane asylum. But he actually said … I think he said eight, not seven, eight. And then he finished with, “Don’t call me, I’ll call you.” Can you imagine? The President of the United States, “Don’t call me, I’ll call you.”
 You know what that is? That’s a mafia statement, okay? That’s the head of the mafia saying, “Don’t call me.” This guy actually said that, and then he walked away and people became incensed, because they knew that wasn’t the people that read the thing. Most people believed him.
 Because you know, he’s a corrupt politician, 100%. No, he’s a corrupt … and then I see him. By the way, you ever see this guy? He walks up to the mics. I mean, we’re not … all fairness, look, I don’t want to be … because with Me Too, I never even think about looks anymore, okay? I don’t talk about looks of a male or a female, but in his case, let’s just say … the last time I’ll ever refer to this. He’s not exactly the best looking guy we’ve ever seen. No, any mic. He walks up to the mic, and he’s so just, “This is a sad, sad day for America. Our president is an employee of Russia. I have absolute proof that the president,” this is at the beginning, and every week they’d say, “Where’s the proof?”
 “It’s coming. It’s coming.” Then we get the Mueller report, nothing. And I’ll tell you what, I know some of the people in this audience. If I spent not $45 million, not 18 Trump haters, I call them the angry Democrats. It was 13, then it went to 18, and then Mueller. Did Muller do a good job? Did he do a good job?
 How was his performance in front of Congress?
 Not the best, but think of this, $45 million they spent. And you know, I heard somebody say, “Well, we got back some of that money.” Let me tell you, you cost this country billions, and billions, and billions of dollars in all of the things that didn’t get done, in all of the embarrassment to our country. You caused billions and billions of dollars, and it was a hoax. But this guy, Schiff, “I have absolute proof. I have this. I have that, this, that.” Anytime he sees a camera and he’s stone faced, stone faced. He’s a pathological liar. He gets up, and I’ve never seen anything like it. Even I was saying, “I wonder what he has. What does he have?” He says, “I have absolute,” I said, “I haven’t spoken to Russia in year. What the hell do I have to do with Russia?” But this guy gets up … oh, I think we have a vote coming in.
 So we got every single Republican voted for us. Whoa, whoa, wow, wow, almost 200. So we had 198. 229, 198. We didn’t lose one republican vote, and three Democrats voted for us, [Haleigh 00:00:53:20]. Haleigh! Wow! Thank you, Haleigh, great job. Wow. The Republican party has never been so affronted, but they’ve never been so united as they are right now, ever, never. And I know the senators, and they’re great guys, and women too. We have some great women. We have great guys. They’re great people. They love this country. They’re going to do the right thing. They’re going to do the right thing.
 So I said in my letter to Pelosi … I love that. You know, usually there’s one, two. The Republicans, look, I’ve said it for a long time. The Democrats are lousy politicians, they really are. They’ve got horrible policies, open borders, crime is fine, drugs pouring through. I mean, think of what they do. Sanctuary cities, they love sanctuary cities. They’re lousy politicians, but they have one thing … two things. They are vicious. They’re the most vicious people. The Republicans aren’t as vicious. They may learn to be vicious after going through this, though. But the other thing, the Democrats always stick together. Now think of it, three Democrats went over to our side, no Republicans. It’s unheard of.
 And by the way, this is for a hundred years. I’m not just talking about this little point in time. The Republicans are known as, it’s always harder to stick together. These people are great. We have a great Republican Party, and we have to get that change. We have to take back the house. You’ll have the greatest healthcare ever if we take … and by the way, we had another victory. The individual mandate, just a little while ago, it came over the wires, it was just upheld. The individual mandate is now gone. The most unpopular part of Obamacare. It was just upheld.
 So I said in my letter to Pelosi, “By proceeding with your invalid impeachment, you’re violating your oath of office. You’re breaking your allegiance to the Constitution. You’re declaring open war on American democracy. You dare to invoke the founding fathers in pursuit of this election nullification scheme, yet your spiteful actions display unfettered contempt for America’s founding, and your egregious conduct.” And listen though, it’s so true, it threatens to destroy what our founders pledged, and in fact their very lives to build. “You are the ones interfering in America’s elections. You are the one subverting America’s democracy. We did nothing wrong, nothing whatsoever. This was just an excuse. You are the ones that are obstructing justice. You are the ones bringing pain and suffering to our republic for your own selfish, personal, political and partisan gain.”
 They’re bringing pain. The work we could be doing on lowering drug prices, on getting rid of these horrible, horrible situations. You know in the border … the woman is okay? Is she okay? Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. I mean, some of these people are waiting here for three days, right? Thank you. They’ll come back. Come back.
 Thank you. Merry Christmas is true. But what they’ve done with this perversion, it’s perversion. And when you watch some of these people get up and speak today, they don’t even … “You have violated the Constitution.”
 “Well, what does he done wrong?”
 “Well, we don’t know that.” They don’t even have any crime. This is the first impeachment where there’s no crime. I say, “Tell me what I did, please.”
 “Well, we don’t know. You violated the Constitution.” You had Turley, who’s smart, Alan Dershowitz, these guys. All of them, they said, “There’s no crime. There’s no crime,” right?
 There’s no crime! I’m the first person that ever get impeached, and there’s no crime. I feel guilty. You know what they call it? Impeachment light. It’s impeachment light. That’s why, with Richard Nixon, I just see it as a very dark era, very dark, very … oh, you don’t even like to think. I don’t know about you, but I’m having a good time, it’s crazy. But I also know we have a great group of people behind us in the Republican Party, we really do. Maybe I wouldn’t feel the same way, but we have a great group of people behind us. We had in the House, and we have it in the Senate. They’re doing a great job, so I’m not worried. I’m not worried, because it’s always good when you don’t do anything wrong, you get impeached. That may be a record that will last forever.
 But you know what they have done? They’ve cheapened the impeachment process. And now anybody that become … this is a sacred position. Anybody that becomes president, I mean, they could have a phone call and they get impeached. So if the Republicans … if you had a Democrat as president, we have a Republican house, they don’t like the guy for whatever reason, or the woman, they impeach the person. It’s cheapened it. It’s exactly what our founding fathers didn’t want, and they said it could happen, and it’s happened. But I know one thing, Americans will show up by the tens of millions next year to vote Pelosi the hell out of office.
 But it’s so disappointing. I see a woman, Carolyn Maloney. She’s a long time, nothing much, believe me. She’s a Congresswoman from Manhattan, the east side. I was with her. Her first race, I helped her. She was always so nice, “Oh, thank you, thank you.” I made lots of contributions over the years. In New York, if you’re not a … it’s purely Democrat, especially in Manhattan. So what happens? I make lots of contributions for years, and years, and years. I go run. The first person I see, Carolyn Maloney. I raise my hand to impeach. Well, give me back the damn money that I’ve been paying her for so many years. Let her pay me back all the money. Let her pay me back all the money.
 Then you have this Dingell. Dingell, you know Dingell, from Michigan. You know Dingell? You ever hear of her, Michigan? Debbie Dingell, that’s a real beauty. So she calls me up like eight months ago. Her husband was here a long time, but I didn’t give him the B treatment. I didn’t give him the C or the D. I could’ve. Nobody what is, you know? I gave the A+ treatment. “Take down the flags.”
 “While you’re taking them down for ex-Congressman Dingell …”
 ” … do this, do that, do that, rotunda everything.” I gave him everything. That’s okay. I don’t want anything for it. I don’t need anything for anything. She calls me up. “It’s the nicest thing that’s ever happened. Thank you so much. John would be so thrilled. He’s looking down. He’d be so thrilled. Thank you so much, sir.” I said, “That’s okay, don’t worry about it.” Maybe he’s looking up? I don’t know. I don’t know. Maybe, maybe. But let’s assume he’s looking down. But I gave him A+, not A, not B+, not B. I gave him the A+, and she called me. She said, “Oh, no.” I won’t go into the conversation, because it’s not fair do that. But all I want to say is, let’s put it this way, it was the most profuse thank you that you could ever get on a scale of zero to 10, it was a 10. Okay, so that was what? February or something. Now they talk about this phony impeachment, and she’s out there, “Well, we have to look seriously at our president, because he may have violated the Constitution of the United States.”
 “And I can’t be happy with that, because I love our country. I love this, and I love that.” She loves everything. I said, “She’s a no,” okay? No, but I look at her, and she’s so sincere, and what happens? “I vote to impeach Trump.” And you know what? I didn’t say, “Who the hell knew this was even going to come up?” I went through the whole Muller hoax. They did this big report. I was totally exonerated. They didn’t even bring it up at the impeachment, because I was totally exonerated. If they saw one little kernel, one little quarter of a sentence … look what they did with one word. Remember this, what did I do? Why did I do? It’s us. But they don’t say it that way. They say, “I.” They read it totally different, schiff and his band of thieves, they read it.
 Now I say basically, very simple, do us a favor, our country. Do us! Do us! Not me! Our country! And then what do I say? I say, “The United States Attorney General, Attorney General of the United States could speak to you, it would be great,” okay? Because it’s known for major corruption. In fact, the new leader of Ukraine got in on a construction … on a platform where he looks for all of the problems of dishonesty, and everything that was going on in Ukraine, right? He looked for it, that’s how he got into office. He got into office that way.
 So we take it and they repeat it a thousand times, and they never say with the right … so I go wild, and we start. And the Republicans have got it right. Now we always correct him, but I use the word us. Us is the United States, our country. And then it actually says, I think, “Comma, country,” but they don’t say that. They say, “Do me a favor.” How many times have you heard it? Where they say in a speech? “And then the president said, do me a favor.” Well, that’s not what I said. I said, “Do us a favor, our country.” And then I said, the Attorney General of the United States, I didn’t say my campaign-
 I said the Attorney General of the United States, I didn’t say my campaign manager. Okay? I said the attorney … And these people want to impeach the President of the United States for that?
 Oh, and then what happened? Right? Then what happened? So then, the President of Ukraine, who’s a quality person, said there was no pressure exerted whatsoever. That was a killer for the Democrats, right? Then his foreign minister said the same thing. He said there was no pressure exerted whatsoever. There was no pressure. That’s a killer. So now did you see what the Democrats did a couple of days ago? They tried to say that he’s not a strong person, that he was weak. They used the word weak, that he was weak, and under the power of Trump, he said. Do you know how insulting that is? Anybody that becomes president of a country, and that’s a big country and it’s a tough country, you got to be tough. He’s tough. But so what they’re saying now is he was weak because the wording, it just doesn’t fit. Okay? These are really dishonest people. And if the press was fair, this thing never would have happened.
 So the House Democrats are surrendering their majority, their dignity, their reputations. They look like a bunch of fools. And I’ll tell you, we have a lot of new stars in the Republican Party, I could read off a list of 20 names. But they’re giving up their honor, and they’ll receive a big backlash at the box office. When you take a look, that ballot box, that ballot box on November 3rd, I think we’re going to have crowds like we’ve never had.
 And I’ll tell you something, it used to be, they’d always say, “Oh, the Republicans.” You know, in 2018, I didn’t run. I didn’t run, right? They all said, “Oh, we didn’t.” Well actually, we picked up two seats in the Senate that these guys never talk about. We just approved 171 federal court justices, 171 federal justices, including courts of appeal, 171. We’ll be up, probably by the end of the year, to 182, and for that, I thank President Obama. He gave me 142 openings. He gave me 142. I said to him, my people, I got there, because they say the most important thing you could do as a president is judges and Supreme Court.
 We have two great Supreme Court judges. Right? Two Justices of the Supreme court, Kavanaugh, Gorsuch. Two great men. They’re great. And how about the pain that they put Justice Kavanaugh through, right? Over a phony deal, I hate to tell you. Over a phony deal. What a disgrace, what they put that man through and that family through. Just remember it come November. You got to remember, it’s a long time. You know, in the life of Trump, 10 months is an eternity. It’s a long time. Somebody said, “Congratulations sir, you’re going to win.” I said, “Don’t say that. Just don’t talk about it. Let’s always pretend you’re one point down.” Like last time. Going to be close. Nope, it’s going to be close. But what they put that man through was horrible, what they put his family through was horrible. And you know, those stories largely have been recanted. And frankly, the ones that didn’t recant, I don’t know what a Supreme Court judge does, but he should sue them. He should sue them.
 So we want to take back the House, we’ll hold the Senate, and we’ll keep the White House. You will have the greatest healthcare. You will continue with the greatest judges. You know, we have judges that are … We just had a great story in the Wall Street Journal. I have to be always very truthful, because if I’m a little bit off, they call me a liar. They’ll say, “He gets a Pinocchio,” the stupid Washington Post, they have Pinocchio. I mean, even if you’re saying things perfectly, it’s a Pinocchio. There’s nothing you can say where you don’t get a Pinocchio. But what happens, what happens is we have Wall Street Journal the other day got the best story. They said, “Whether you like him or not, the job he’s done on judges and Supreme Court Justices, but the job he’s done on judges is amazing. Say it’s the most important thing.
 See, I don’t agree. I say defense is the most, the military is the most. But once you’re beyond the military, I mean to me defense is the most important. Because without good defense, maybe we don’t need judges so much, right? It’s like somebody said, “Well, we violated the budget.” I said, “Do me a favor, don’t worry about the budget. If we’re attacked and aren’t doing very well and somebody says, ‘Well, at least we have a good budget,’ that doesn’t work too well.” Right? That doesn’t work. So we have great military, we have great judges, we have great everything.
 Drug prices down. For the first time in 51 years, drug prices came down. And that was with no help from the Democrats. If they helped, because you need their votes, if they helped, I could get those drug prices down 40 and 50%. Okay? And we just approved, and we’re approving very soon for the Governor of Florida, Ron DeSantis, where he can buy, he has the right to go, we’re giving him the right to go and buy from a foreign country, where the prices for the identical drug, identical drug are 50% less. He’s going to do that for the people of Florida. And we’re going to do that for your governors if they want to do that. We’ll get that down so far.
 Everyone in America can see straight through the Washington Democrats’ phony, dangerous charade. Schiff makes up so many things. Pelosi makes it up, and she backs him up. I saw her on a television show, and George Stephanopoulos, that’s another beauty, he said, even he said, he was defending me. I couldn’t believe it. He made this statement, “But you know he lied on that. He made up this stuff.” “No, he didn’t, he didn’t.” So that means Nancy Pelosi said no, the statement that he made up. But it’s all going to end soon, and it’s going to come out to a beautiful, great victory for the Republican Party and for this nation.
 Thank you very much. So that’s it. We have the greatest country. We’ve turned around a ship. We need four more years. If we don’t have it … Now, if you want to drive them crazy, we had one group in Pennsylvania, some guy started screaming, ” 16 more years.” 16. They went crazy. And you know what they don’t understand? When I do get out, they’re all going to go out of business. They’re making more money than they’ve ever made.
 That crazy New York Times, one of the worst newspapers in the world, one of the most dishonest newspapers in the history of the world, totally phony. They came out with a story, where it was a great headline for me, and the people that read it, the super radical left, they called and complained so much that they changed the headline and took it from positive to negative on a good story. Can you believe it? No, they’re among the most dishonest people.
 But I’ll never forget, before I took that great escalator ride down with our First Lady … Our First Lady is doing a great job, great job. I said, “First Lady, you’re so lucky I took you on this journey, this wonderful, beautiful journey.” And it is. You know why it’s a wonderful, beautiful journey? Because look at, what we’re accomplishing is unbelievable. It’s unprecedented. It is unprecedented what we’re accomplishing. “You’re so lucky,” I said it to all my people. I have great people in the back. I say, “You folks are so lucky I took you on this. You could be home right now, relaxing.”
 But I’d rather be here, frankly, than any place. These rallies are great. They’re inspiring. You are inspiring. And you know, it’s funny, we’re not even into election season. Yeah, it’s a long way away. We’re not even in it. And yet, I think the enthusiasm right now is greater than it was even before the 2016 election. Does that make any sense? I think a lot of it has to do with a witch hunt. A lot of it has to do with the phony, witch hunt because you’re smart people. You’re the elite. They’re not the elite. You’re the elite.
 You’re the elite. You do better than they do. They talk about it, don’t you hate it? “Well, the elite … ” Oh really? I went to better schools. Many of you went to better schools. We won’t talk about homes, even though your homes are nicer. We won’t talk about jobs. You see the jobs reports? You see what’s happening? Do you see where wages are going up?
 You know, when I first started, when I was here, one of my first speeches, I was talking that people made more money, that was four years ago, so it was 20 years before that, so that’s 24, 25 years ago. They made more money 24 years ago than they were making when I got elected president. And they worked one job versus two or three jobs. Now it’s going up beautifully and we want that, the salaries. And you know, the number one group of people that are going up is the blue collar worker. It’s percentage, the best. The blue collar worker. They had two and three jobs. The blue collar worker is going up the most.
 Anyway, so you know what else? The thing I’m happiest about, African American unemployment, the lowest in the history of our country. African American. Remember I used to say, you remember, look at, you. Are you the greatest guy? Everyone thinks, do I pay? I’m telling you, I have a group of African American guys, and gals by the way, that follow me around and they think I pay them, and I don’t. I love them, they love me. They come. How many rallies have you come to? A lot. They’re great people, just great. Thank you. I don’t even know who the hell he is. Is that right? I don’t know him, but I like him. I see him at so many rallies. I appreciate it. You and your group, they’re great people. Thank you. So you’re obviously doing well if you can travel around like that, right? Ah, he knows. I appreciate it, I really do. I think it’s fantastic. Thank you. Thank you.
 But think of this, African-American unemployment is the lowest it’s ever been in the history of our country. Their poverty levels, they had a horrible poverty level, in the negative sense, now their poverty levels are the best they’ve ever been in the history of our country. Same with Hispanic Americans, the best unemployment numbers and employment numbers. And the same with Asians, the best unemployment. And women, I’m sorry, 71 years, best in 71 years. I’ve let the women down! But I think within another couple of months, you’ll be historical. So only 71 years best. The best in 71 years.
 But what we’re doing has been an incredible thing. It’s an incredible thing. When I’m on the debate stage with one of these characters, and they try and say negative stuff, I’ll just say, “Well, here’s the story. In the history of our country, this group is doing the best, and that group is doing the best, and the women are doing the best, and everybody’s doing. And frankly, you know what it is? The whole country’s doing the best. Okay? The whole country is doing the best.”
 So we have records and everything, and yet they’re trying to, and they really are, I’ve never seen anything like it, they’re accusing me, really, of doing what Joe Biden … Biden admitted what he did. How about this? They protect him. Did you see the crummy debate? Those debates are so boring. They’re dying in the ratings. They’re dying, they’re dying. ” While it’s totally unsupported!” What’s unsupported? He’s on tape saying that he’s holding back $1 billion from Ukraine unless you change the prosecutor. How about that question? I won’t say who answered, because you know I’m not, I actually used to like the guy, he was a nice guy to me, but now I don’t like him so much, but that’s okay.
 But he goes, “While it’s totally unsubstantiated, and while we beg your mercy that we’re asking you even to bring up this question, but President Trump said you refused to give $1 billion of taxpayer money to Ukraine unless they get the prosecutor to stop looking at your son and your son’s company.” And Sleepy Joe gives a sleepy answer, and that’s the end of it. That’s it. Then whenever I bring it up, do you ever notice they always use, ” While these charges are totally unsubstantiated”? He’s on tape! If that were me, it’s the electric chair. They would bring the electric chair back. No, the guy’s on tape, and they always say it’s unsubstantiated. “It is not supported by fact,” one of them the other day, they finally changed the word. “It is supported by fact.” No, it’s supported by tape. No, it’s unbelievable. In many ways, I’d like to have him win because number one, he’s going to have to eventually answer that question, and number … She said he doesn’t know where he is. That’s the other problem.
 Now, I’ve been doing this for a long time, and I have much bigger crowds than anybody’s ever had in history. By the way, do you know what? I say it against the fake news, because you know what they’re going to say. Every stadium is packed. I give my people one instruction, get the largest stadium you can get. Now, that’s why I was a little surprised. But in Battle Creek, you don’t have that many, right? Not too many stadiums. But I wanted to be here. You know why I wanted to be here?
 First of all the crowd is incredible. The crowd outside. But let me tell you. No, you know why I wanted to be here? Because we have a lot of choices, but I wanted to be here because this area supported me so overwhelmingly, and I said, “I want to be there.” Pretty simple, pretty simple. Pretty simple. I wanted to be here for that reason, and I just want to say thank you, because I’ll tell you what, you came in … I don’t know, I didn’t get 100%, but we got a damn good percentage, right? We got a damn good percentage. So it’s really thrilling to be here.
 But we’re joined tonight by many terrific Republican leaders. Your Michigan House Speaker, Lee Chatfield. Where’s Lee? Lee, come up if you want. Come on, what the hell, we have nothing else to do. Should we get him up? Yes. Come up Lee, come up Lee, get up here. Come on up, Lee. Republican Party Chairwoman, Ronna McDaniel, who I spoke to. And the bottom line on the end of her story, so when I won I said, “Who’s going to head up the RNC?” I said, “I got to get that woman from Michigan.” Remember they were all saying, “You can’t win Michigan”? Now we’re going to win it by so much, you better remember all those. Every time a car plant opens, please think about Trump. Come on up here, Lee. Michigan GOP Chairwoman, Laura Cox. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. President, thank you.
 Hate to tell you, but all your congressmen, you know where they are right now. Your congressmen, all of your Congresspeople, men, wonderful people, they’re at a place called Congress right now. They’re doing an unbelievable job of supporting your President and supporting you. They had a choice, “Sir, should we leave and be there?” I said, “Don’t leave. Stay right where you are.” That’s why we got that vote. That’s some vote, right Lee? The Chairman of the Woman’s Workers and Workers for Trump, and a proud union autoworker, Terry Bowman, who’s been so terrific. Thank you, Terry. Come on up. And while Democrats are obsessed with impeachment, we’re focused on jobs, jobs, jobs. This group, local leaders. And all your Washington folks, they are right where they have to be in Washington tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Great job. Thank you very much.
 We’ve eliminated more job-killing regulations than any administration in the history of our country, whether it’s four years or eight years, or in one case, much more than eight years. In a period of two and a half years, we have eliminated more regulations than any other president, by far. You’re saving almost $3,000 a year because of regulation cuts. Total income gains for median households will reach $10,000 a family.
 I’ll give you a couple of quick numbers. So under President Bush, for eight years, you saved $450, meaning you took in 450 bucks. Okay, fine. Under President Obama, you took in $975. Under President Trump, including the energy savings, and the regulation savings, and the tax cut savings, it’s more than $10,000 in less than three years. Pretty good, right? So for two eight-years, you had a 400, 450, and a 975. That’s eight years. 450. In less than three years, you had more than $10,000. That goes right into your pockets. It’s one of the reasons our economy is doing well, because, as they say, the consumer is doing better than they’ve ever done. And that’s great, that’s what we wanted.
 We’ve ended the war on American energy, and the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas on planet earth. And these maniacs want to close it up. How about going to Texas? You know Beto? What? Remember what he said, I said, “Oh, this guy’s a loser. You know a salesman, like if you’re a great salesman, you never talk that you’re a great salesman. You don’t walk in and say, “Well, I’m a great salesman. I can sell … ” Any guy that does that, they’re no good. It’s those quiet type that get you. You know, the ones that don’t talk. So Beto, when he first got in, remember this clown? He gets in, no, no, he gets in. “I was made for this job, to run for president.” After about two weeks, they killed him. He was gone.
 But you remember, he was against the Bible, he was against religion, he was against guns, and he was against oil and gas. And he comes from Texas. I said, that’s a platform. Think of it. He’s against religion, he’s against guns, and against oil and gas. Think of it. I don’t like to bring it up because he’s gone zone, but he comes from Texas. I said, “Abraham Lincoln can’t win in Texas with that platform.” But they are, all of them, they want to close up your energy. It’s a big deal. They want to close up your steel mills. They don’t want your steel mills. Look at what I’ve done for steel. I mean, the steel is back. We taxed all of the dump steel coming in from China and other places, and your steel mills that are doing great, they’re expanding all over the country. And they were going to be out of business within two years. The way they were going, they were gone. United States Steel is spending now billions of dollars on expansions.
 Every major Democrat running for president has pledged to eliminate gas powered automobiles and destroy the U.S. auto industry forever. And you know why? Because they have these maniacs that say you got to go all electric. I want to have an alternative, a big alternative. You’re going to always have the alternative. And a lot of people don’t know of the electric can ever catch the gas, you know? And by the way, there’ll be different forms of energy coming along. But they want to close them up, and we’re not closing them up. We’re going to have lots of alternatives so that you can have it from a pricing, you can have it for a lot of different reasons.
 We’re even bringing back the old light bulb. You heard about that, right? The old light bulb, which is better. I say, “Why do I always look so orange?” You know why? Because of the new light, they’re terrible. You look terrible. They cost you many, many times more, like four or five times more. And you know they’re considered hazardous waste. When a light bulb is out, you’ve got to bring it to a dump. So let’s say, over here in Battle Creek, where’s your nearest dump? Okay, that’s what, a couple of hundred miles away. So every time you lose … drive a couple of hundred miles, right? I said, “How many people do that?” Nobody. What do they do? They throw it in the garbage. But you know what it is, because it’s all gas. It’s much more expensive, four or five times more.
 And I came into office, I did a lot of this. Sinks, showers, all of this stuff, I did a lot of it. No water comes out. You have areas where there’s so much water, you don’t know what to do with it. You turn on the shower, you’re not allowed to have any water anymore. I mean, we do a lot of it. Dishwashers, we did the dishwasher, right? You press it. Remember the dishwasher, you’d press it, boom, there’d be like an explosion, five minutes later you open it up, the steam pours out, the dishes. Now you press it 12 times, the women tell me, “Again.” You know, they give you four drops of water, and they’re in places where there’s so much water, they don’t know what to do with it.
 So we just came out with a reg on dishwashers. We’re going back to the old. By the way, by the time they press it 10 times, you spend more on water, and electric. Don’t forget, the whole thing is worse because you’re spending all that money on electric. So we’re bringing back standards that are great, and better machinery that you can have the water again, right?
 But with the light bulb, I said, “What’s going on with the light bulbs? A lot of people are complaining about the cost.” So I had a couple of experts come in, I said, “Tell me, what gives a better light?” “Well, we liked the old light bulb better.” I said, “I like it better.” And so what I did is you can have either one. If you want to buy the newer kind, you can. And if you want to look very handsome or beautiful by buying the older kind, like I do. So we’re bringing back the old light bulb. So it’s a much less expensive, it probably gives a better light. But whatever it is, and you’ll be able to spend a lot less money for a light bulb. I mean, it sounds like little, but it’s big stuff. Okay? It’s big stuff, and we’re doing it with a lot of other things, our dishwashers.
 And you know, I won’t tell you one of the things, because every time I tell you, they do a big number on it. You know the one I’m talking about, right? Sinks, right? Showers. And what goes with a sink and a shower? 10 times, right? 10 times. Not me, of course, not me, but you, him. But I never mention that, because one time I mentioned all three, I said, “Sinks, showers, and toilets.” The headline was, “Trump with the toilets, toilets.” That’s all they want. They don’t even mention it. So I didn’t mention that, okay? I go off the record. But you know what? It’s terrible. You want to wash your hands, you turn on the sink, no water comes out. So you leave the water going 10 times as long, it’s the same thing.
 You have a shower, drip. It’s no good for me. For me. You know the one thing that came out really good about being in this business? They always used to say I wore a hairpiece. It’s okay. I know people wear hairpieces. But they always used to say. They don’t say that anymore because I have been through the worst storms. If you wear one of those suckers, you got to give it up fast because within two weeks they got you. You look handsome, don’t worry about it.
 But in the last two decades before my election, we lost one in five auto manufacturing jobs in this country. The people are trying to impeach us for doing all of the things that they’ve wanted to do for so many years. And that’s why it doesn’t work. We look so forward to taking it on, and it is all about cleaning the swamp, draining the swamp, and we have a very, very big, bad, dangerous swamp. Okay, that’s enough of that. That’s enough.
 So among the very first acts that I did was to stop the deal that would have dealt a death blow to the U.S. auto industry. I withdrew from the horrible Trans Pacific Partnership. That would have ended your auto industry. A lot of people don’t know that, but I do. Remember TPP? We were basically ceding our auto industry to these countries that were just going to rip us off. The people that made these trade deals, it’s like, where do they come? Like the one in Korea, that was a Hillary Clinton special. She said, “This will produce 250,000 new jobs.” And I said, “Well, what happened?” He said, “Well, she was right.” Except it was for South Korea, not for us. No, it’s true. It produced 250,000 jobs for South Korea. These deals were so bad.
 But now they’re getting really good, and some of them are getting great, and over a period of time they are going to be phenomenal. Wait till you see the numbers that start coming out of this country over a short period of time. But we have to go through a little pain, because we have to do it, and then they all say, “We’re going to withdraw,” and then I say, “You can withdraw, I don’t care. We’re putting tariffs on your country.” Then they say, “We’d love to make a deal, sir.”
 The new USMCA has powerful protections to keep auto manufacturing jobs right here in Michigan where they belong. Since the election, we’ve created 41,000 brand new motor vehicle and parts jobs, manufacturing jobs. Remember the statement by President Obama? “You’d have to wave a magic wand.” Remember the magic wand? Because manufacturing … And I said, “You know, that sounds strange. What do you do if you don’t have manufacturing? How do you make things?” Right? Manufacturing jobs won’t happen. Well, we’ve got 600,000 manufacturing jobs, and you’re going to see a big, big increase.
 The truth is, we need more people. You know what? We need more people. We need more people coming into the country, and they’re going to come in, and they’re going to come in through merit, and they’re going to love our country, and they’re going to respect our country, and they’re going to work. We do need more people. They’re opening these massive, Foxconn in Wisconsin, they’re opening these massive plants and it’s hard to get people. We want people coming in, but they have to come in, only they have to come in through merit.
 Fiat-Chrysler recently announced a $4.5 billion investment in Michigan, including the first new auto plant in Detroit in more than a generation. And General Motors recently announced a $300 million investment at its Orion Assembly Plant right here in Michigan. Come on, General Motors, let’s go. General Motors gave us a little hard time with one building. I wasn’t happy about that. That was the only building I had a problem within the whole car industry, right? Right? You know the one I’m talking about. I didn’t like that. Anyway, but they’re spending money, you know, what can I tell you?
 But these companies are coming in, a lot of the foreign companies are coming because they have to. I say, “You have to, or we’re not trading with you anymore.” Because we had such big deficits with these countries. With Japan, we had a $68 billion deficit. I said, Shinzo, he’s great Prime Minister of Japan. But he said, “But nobody has ever asked us to do this.” I said, “I’m asking you.” They are building many, many plants. They’re building many plants now in the United States, the Japanese.
 And after years of rebuilding foreign nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation. Is that okay? We were surrounded with globalists. You know, they think it’s okay. You open a plant in some country that you never heard of, they make your product, they send it. In the meantime, they close all their factories here. We’re not doing that anymore. Those are globalists. They think it’s wonderful to have deficits. I don’t. They think it’s great. It’s a great thing to have deficits. No, those are globalists. The globalists are passe.
 On no issue have Democrat politicians more thoroughly betrayed the American people than immigration. Every Democrat running for president wants to open the floodgates to unlimited refugees from all around the world, overwhelming your communities and putting our national security at grave risk. My administration has taken bold action to reduce the influx of refugees, and we are making sure local communities like yours have a much greater say about who gets admitted into your own neighborhoods. Some of these stories are so sad. Some of the stories are so sad. When it comes to setting immigration policy, we always remember this sacred truth: our first duty and our one true allegiance is to you, the American people, before anybody else. We must care for our own-
 We must care for our own citizens first Democrat immigration policies are resulting in brutal assaults and wicked murders against innocent Americans. I don’t even know what’s happening. It’s terrible. And we’ve moved out thousands and thousands of MS13 thugs out of our country.
 And we have agreements now with Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador. They didn’t use to take them back. If we had a murderer, then we should get them the hell out. We don’t really want them in our prisons and take care of them for 50, 60 years. We want to bring them back. They wouldn’t take them. The planes used to go around and around, don’t land, don’t land. With us, they land. We worked out deals with every one of them. We stopped giving them all the aid. We’re giving them all this money and then they said, “We’re not going to let you land. We’re not going to let you take them back.” I said, “That’s okay. 500 million, we were giving them. I said, now we give them $5 we give them nothing. All of a sudden they said, “We would love to have them back.” We would love it. It’s wonderful to have them back.
 In June, two illegal aliens in Sandusky, Michigan were convicted of sadistically beating and stabbing a woman to death with a kitchen knife. Then, they hid her body in a water drain. A criminal alien with two previous deportations was just arrested in Michigan and convicted of brutally beating and strangling to death, a single mother of five young children. It’s happening all the time.
 Far left politicians support deadly sanctuary cities, which deliberately release dangerous, violent criminal aliens out of the jails and directly onto your streets. We had a great election in North Carolina recently, two great congressmen got elected, you don’t hear about it, when they win, you don’t ever hear about it, just a few months ago. Two great people and they got elected and they got elected because I went in and said, “Talk about the fact that you have sanctuary cities” and they had some horrible crimes happening from those sanctuary cities. Soon as I mentioned that, boom, they went up like rocket ships and they won their elections and it was great. Great thing.
 The sanctuary cities are a disaster and let me tell you, the people of California, they don’t like sanctuary cities either. They’re stuck with them because they have crazy politicians. Earlier this year, authorities in the sanctuary jurisdiction of Kent County, Michigan, anybody know Kent County? Released an illegal alien charged with assault with intent to murder after he repeatedly and viciously stabbed a man in the head with a broken bottle. They let him go to roam free in Michigan communities. If you want to end sanctuary cities in Michigan, if you want to protect your families from criminal aliens, if you want to have a safe life, frankly, it’s so crazy what they’re doing. You wouldn’t even believe it. You have only one choice in 2020, you must vote Republican.
 Four more years. Four more years, four more years.
 Thank you. I’m surprised. As you know, you do have sanctuary cities in Michigan. I was almost surprised to hear it, but you have them. It’s one of those progressive things? They think they’re doing a wonderful favor for the world. And now we’re getting these prosecutors that, you murder somebody, they give you two months, they fight that you don’t even have to go to jail. What’s going on is crazy. Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, illegal crossings are down 75% since may and we’ve ended catch and release. We’ve ended it. We could’ve ended it so easily. It’s called the loophole. You catch him and then you release him into a country. That’s what you had to do by law. And if you don’t do that, they arrest the border patrol people. You believe this? The border patrol people were in more danger than the criminal aliens coming in and some of these people are not good people.
 Remember the caravans coming up, we call them caravans, and they’re interviewing the people. I’ll never forget it. One nice citizen reporter, female reporter, “And what did you do?” “Well, I want to come to America.” “Okay, good. What did you do?” “Murder.” “What?” This was on live television. They didn’t play that clip too long. One of the beauties back there, “What did you do?” “Murder.” [“Ay, yi, yi” 00:04:46] These are the people because look, when you have a caravan of eight or 10,000 people, a lot of those people, do you think that Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, do you think they’re sending us their finest? I don’t think so. Alright.
 How about the lottery? That was a Schumer deal. Chuck Schumer, crying Chuck, crying Chuck Schumer. I used to be a big contributor to him, he used to kiss my ass, Chuck Schumer. He’d do anything. He would’ve done anything for me. Anything I asked him, get Schumer on the phone, “You do this, you do that. You get him on the phone, that son of a bitch.” He would have done, I didn’t need anything, but he would have done anything. Now it’s like, “The prisoner has not acted-“. Give me a break. Give me a break. Find out how much money did I give a raise to Chuck Schumer and Chuck, give all that money back please.
 Carolyn Maloney, give that money back. Every penny should come back. They act so pompous. They act so righteous. They’re not righteous. They’re not righteous. They’re bad people. The far left Democrats have never been more extreme than they are now. Democrats are pushing a socialist takeover of healthcare that will take away your coverage and take away your doctor. 180 million people are going to lose. A lot of people here now have healthcare finally under us that’s phenomenal. And that’s what you want. They want to take it away, 180. They want you to go to a hospital ward someplace and sit there all night. I don’t think so. Not in this group. And you know what? Some people, it’s good so people, but can you imagine? They want to take away 180 million people, great, private, highly negotiated healthcare where you have your own doctor.
 Remember Obama? 28 times, “You can have your doctor, you can have your plan.” Didn’t work out that way, did it? I think we should impeach him for that. Let’s impeach him, for that, for the IRS scandal, for the guns. Remember the guns, he was giving them to anybody that wanted them. He gave guns to the worst people in the world and then they didn’t have them registered, right? Not to good. Impeach him. Why didn’t the Republicans impeach him? Those were really, how about giving around $1.8 billion in cash? How about that?
 By the way, I ended the Iran nuclear deal. I hope you happy, much different country. But how about giving Iran $1.8 billion in cash. Many big planes going over to Iran, loaded up to the ceiling with cash. You know what $1.8 billion, you ever see like at a casino, $1 million wrapped up? It’s a big pile of stuff, that’s a million. Now multiply it, $1.8 billion in cash he gave. So, why is he allow to do that? Did anybody try to impeach him for that? Everybody knew it was wrong. Republicans will strongly protect patients with preexisting conditions and we will protect your preexisting physicians. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb, right up until the moment of birth. Right?
 That is why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift of God. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption. And that’s what it is. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and the American dream. And that’s really what it is. We’re also the party of the great Abraham Lincoln. A lot of people forget that, but we have to bring it up. To protect the health and safety of our citizens, we awarded $100 million to improve water infrastructure in Flint. How badly was Flint? Who were the geniuses that did that to you? You have clean water coming into Flint. They had to pay a very tiny little fee. So instead, they go into this horrible, horrible, really polluted water and the water comes out of there.
 They spend hundreds of millions of dollars to save like a couple of bucks, and the water was so terrible and it hurt the people. It hurt the people. But we’re getting it fixed. And I know your previous governor was a Republican, but I was not a big fan of his. I was not, but I’m not a big fan of the one that can’t fix the potholes either. We’re committed to ensuring America has the cleanest air in the cleanest water on planet earth, and that’s what it’s about. It’s about clean air and it’s about clean, beautiful water. And it’s about keeping our industry, not closing it because of the ridiculous Paris Climate Accord. How’s Paris doing? I don’t think too well. How’s Paris doing with the yellow vests? The yellow vests? You know why? Because they raise gasoline prices so they could send them money all over the world to countries that the people in France never heard of. It’s not working out too well.
 We’re lowering prices. We’re lowering taxes. We’re making it possible. I mean, look at gas prices now. Look at gas prices. I recognize Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. And we also recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. Big deal. For years, you watched as your politicians apologized. Member, “I would like to apologize. I would like to apologize.” Nah, we don’t apologize. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the great people of Michigan. You’re getting your auto industry back. At stake in our present battle is the survival of the American nation. If you want your children to grow up, a land of safety, it’s really, we want a land of safety, justice. Well, I don’t know. When I look at those FBI reports we got out, we got to clean up a lot.
 What they’ve done to hurt people, what they’ve done to hurt with Comey and these horrible people, what they’ve done to hurt people. I think one of the best things I did as president, a lot of people would say, “With all what we’ve done for the economy and,” but one of the best things is firing James Comey’s ass out of there. Boy, those reports are kept. Did you see the other day? “Well, ah, ah.” First time now he said, in other words, he’s 50% there folks. He’s hit the golden pond. Anyway, so what we’re doing is, we’re doing things that are going to make our victory, it’s like a tree. We need that extra four years. We’ve done so much, even Right to Try.
 You know Right to Try? People were traveling, they’re terminally ill, they’re traveling all over the world. We have the best medical in the world, the best doctors, the best labs, best hospital. They’re traveling all over the world, to try and get, because it takes years to get something approved. And I said, “Wait a minute folks, why aren’t we doing this?” And they’ve been trying to do it for 49 years. They couldn’t get it done. Not that easy. The drug companies didn’t want the liability, the country didn’t want the liability, the insurance companies didn’t want the liability.
 I said, “Here’s what we do. We’ll sign an agreement with the people where you’re exculpated from all liability.” “Huh? That’s a good idea.” And it’s a very strong agreement so we can’t get sued. But I said, “Listen, they were worried they’re going to hurt people.” I said, “These people are terminally ill. They’re terminally ill, and so we do it now.” Nine months ago, all the legislators at the 49 years, so if somebody’s sick, they don’t have to go to Asia, they’re have to go to Europe. Or if you’re poor, you go home and you die. Now what happens? Very simple. You sign that document, they work it out. You wouldn’t believe how many lives are being saved. It’s incredible. It’s incredible. I’m very proud of it, Right to Try. I hope you don’t need it. You don’t want it. You don’t want it. Okay? But if you do, it’s there.
 With your help, we will lift millions of more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity. Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration. We will enact the greatest trade deals ever made. They’ll result in more products, proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, made in the USA. We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine. What we’re doing is unbelievable. We’re so far ahead of everybody. What we’ve done in the last three years with the FDA and even the speed of what we’re doing, it would take 12, 13, 14 years to get things approved. It’s down to a much smaller number, but we’re finding new cures for childhood cancer and we are ending the AIDS epidemic in America. We’ve started the process. Who would’ve thought that?
 In 10 years, it’s a 10 year process, we will have ended the AIDS epidemic in America and it could have been been started before I came to office. It was just wasted time. We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America. We support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States.
 We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. They’re incredible, and that includes ICE. You know how tough these people are? These are great patriots. They love our country. Even the sheriffs alone for, some of the people that they’re dealing with. These guys walk into the golem’s nest and in some cases they just swing it out. They can have it. They love it. These are great. If we didn’t have them, and I told you before, they’re taking out bad, bad, bad people by the thousands, especially MS13 gang members.
 Who’s going to do that? Who’s going to do that? Anybody in the front row? I don’t know. What about you? You’re a tough guy. You might do it. You could do it. I don’t know. You might, yeah, you can. What you like? We’re going to recruit you. I think you could handle yourself. Now, these are tough people, right? You got to be tough. Then they get accused, they’re too tough. Oh, they’re too tough. You have some of these guys. They knife people. They don’t even need a gun because it’s more painful. They knife the two young girls, 16 years old. Beautiful. They cut them up into pieces because it was more painful than shooting them. These are animals. And then Nancy Pelosi said, I shouldn’t use the term animal.
 And by the way, she ought to go home and take care of her district where the homeless is all over the place and the tents and the filth and the garbage is a eroding right into the Pacific ocean and into their beaches. She ought to go and take care of her district in San. Do you see what’s going on? And it rains and it’s filth and it’s needles and it’s drugs and it’s, you know what. It’s everything and it goes right into those storm sewers. Storm, not sanitary, storm and it goes right out into the Pacific ocean into the beaches and we fine Los Angeles and San Francisco, but we’ve just sent them a tremendous dollar fine for what they’re doing.
 And Nancy Pelosi is playing games. She ought to go home and take care of the homeless and take care of the filth and everything. San Francisco was the most beautiful city. When you look at what’s happened with the tents all over the place, where the police officers are getting sick just from walking the beat, they’re getting sick. Diseases are coming back that this world hasn’t seen for 30, 40, 50 years. It’s a disgrace. She ought to get back and take care of her district instead of wasting time on this nonsense. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. And we live by the words of our national motto and it’s always going to be up there.
 They want to take everything down. They don’t want Thomas Jefferson anymore. They don’t want anything. That’s a terrible thing and we fight for it, now. We fight. These words will never be taken off. I don’t care where I am. If I’m up there, if I’m down here, I don’t know, but we’ll be fighting. We’ll never take these words off, in God we trust.
 We stand on the shoulders of generations of Michigan Patriots who gave their blood, sweat and tears for this beloved nation. This is the state where Henry Ford invented the assembly line. It’s the place where General Motors, Chrysler and Kellogg transformed the nation. It gave us Motown, the Mustang and the might of the American Midwest. This is the American mid west. And Michigan is the state where generations of strong, tough and proud American workers made this into the greatest and most powerful nation in the history of the world. And we are making it bigger, better and stronger than ever before, by far.
 Loyal citizens like you help build this country. And together, we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you. The American people, the Democrats took the people of Michigan for granted, but with us, you will never be forgotten again. The forgotten men and women of this country will never, ever be forgotten again. And I’m fighting for you. And I love doing it with everything that I have. And I will never, ever stop. And you know that. I will say I could have a much easier life. Some people say, “Why is he doing it?” You know why I’m doing it because we’re doing the thing and look what we’re doing is we’re bringing back our country again. We’re respected again, we’re respected again. We are so respected, you don’t even know how respected.
 I went to NATO where we were being ripped off because the other countries, you have 29 countries, and the other countries weren’t paying their bills. They were delinquent in real estate. I noticed people are using that word. I’ve been using it for the last year. It’s like a real estate trend. That’s when they don’t pay their rent, right? Well, they weren’t paying and you have to see this chart, until I got there. They got to pay and they said, “Well, does that mean you won’t protect us?” I said, “You don’t want the answer to that question.” Over the last, and the Secretary General Stoltenberg, over the last period of just two years, I raised, not from us, nothing from us, $130 billion, but that’s nothing and over a short period of time they will be paying $530 billion more. All of those countries.
 My biggest fan in the world is Secretary General Stoltenberg of NATO. He says, “I never thought this could.” I’m telling you, if you look, it’s like 15 years just down. President Obama would go there, make a speech, “I’d like to thank everybody for being here. Thanks. Look, great job. Sayonara. Goodbye.” Bush, they all did. Nobody ever asked for money. We were spending for 100% of NATO. We’re protecting Europe. They rip us off on trade, right? They rip us off like crazy. We lose hundreds of billions of dollars on trade. We’re changing that, but it’s a long time. It’s been going on a long time. They don’t take your product. They don’t take your cars. They don’t take your farm product. They don’t take your medical machines. We do a big business. They sell us. We don’t sell them because they put restrictions. We have better equipment than them, but they make it so that our equipment doesn’t qualify.
 It’s called artificial barriers or non-monetary barriers. It’s brutal what they do. I’m telling you, they’re as bad as China, just smaller. They are as bad as China, just smaller and now China’s doing great. We’re very happy, but we have to do something with that. We have to take care of our people. We can’t be ripped off by these countries, so NATO is ripping us off militarily, but now they’re starting to pay big money and that’s good. We want to help them. We want to be there with them, but they have to pay. They have to pay. $530 billion and the fake news doesn’t even want to talk about it. They don’t want to talk about it. They talk about other things. They don’t want to talk about that.
 When you’d get a chance though, just a couple of weeks, maybe you could say over a short period of time, NATO countries will be paying $530 billion more. More, not total. More. How’s that? Good. That’s not too bad. Nobody else could do that, I guarantee. I won’t tell you what took place in those closed door meetings. Some of them don’t like me. They like Obama. Germany likes Obama. A lot of these countries, France, they like Obama. It’s embarrassing. In France, President Obama is more popular than President Trump. Well, I should be.
 I just taxed their wine and champagne coming into our country because they’re ripping us off on the internet. Okay. If I ever become more popular, that means I’m not doing my job. You should say he’s out. It’s true. I could be loved in Germany. I could be loved in Germany. Oh, they’d love me. My father came from Germany, parents and I could be loved in Germany. They’d like me so much, but then I’m not doing my job for you. Have to do it. Have to do it. With your help, your devotion, your drive, we’re going to keep on working. We’re going to keep on fighting. We are going to keep on winning, winning, winning because we are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation, under God. America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of Michigan, the best is yet to come.
 Great state. Great state. You better remember all those jobs in a year from now, I tell you. I’ll say, “That state let me down.” I don’t think that’s going to happen. I’m hearing very good thing. You know the interesting thing, before it was like a promise. I said I’m going to bring car back. I’m going to bring this. I’m going to be pres, it was all like, it’s good. You believed me, I was successful, all this, but now we’ve done it. We have done more than I promised, no politics. I promised, we’ve done more than we promised. No politician I think, has ever done that.
 Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you. Thank you, Michigan. Thank you.
 (music). Thank you. Thank you very much. Hello Dallas. It’s great to be with you tonight. Thank you. I am thrilled to be here deep in the heart of Texas where we just opened a beautiful new Louie Vuitton plant. I’m with the freedom loving Patriots of the lone star state. I love it. There has never been a better time to be a proud Texan and there’s never a better time to be a proud American. There never has. Never has.
 I came from a small town, Alvarado, Texas where we celebrated the incredible revival of American manufacturing and we opened up some beautiful places. I’ll tell you, this place is doing great and created in a very short period of time an extra 1000 jobs for Texas.
 Since my election, we’ve created 775,000 new jobs across your state including 70,000 Texas manufacturing jobs. They said those jobs had disappeared, didn’t they? Huh? Hey man, our country is once again living by two simple rules, buy American and hire American.
 The economy is booming. Our people are prospering. Our country is thriving and our nation is stronger than ever before. But the more America achieves, the more hateful and enraged these crazy Democrats become. Crazy. They’re crazy. They’re crazy. At stake in this fight is their survival of American democracy itself. Don’t kid yourself. That’s what they want. They are destroying this country but we will never let it happen. Not even close. For three straight years, radical Democrats have been drawing to overthrow the results of a great, great election. Maybe, maybe the greatest election in the history of our country. They want to oppose an extreme agenda. They cannot pass it and they cannot win it at the ballot box. They’re not going to win. The not even going to get … they won’t come close in 2020. They know it. They know it. They’re not going to win it. They say, let’s see. What’s another idea? What’s another idea? How do we win this election? You know, I really don’t believe anymore that they love our country. I don’t believe it.
 Crazy Nancy. Think of that. That crazy Nancy. She is crazy. And shifty Schiff. How about this guy? He makes up my conversation, which was perfect. He makes up my conversation. He sees what I said. It doesn’t play well because it was perfect. So he made up a totally false conversation with the Ukrainian president and we caught him cold. Everybody knew it anyway. See, we did one thing. You always have to do the unexpected. They never thought I’d released the conversation with the Ukrainian president. I want to get him before Congress and I want to see what he has to say. You know, they say he has immunity. Why would you have immunity for outright fraud? Why do you have immunity? Why? He’s a fraud. We’re fighting a campaign against leftist, socialist, and globalists who want to return to reckless wars, open borders, rampant crime, and totally disastrous one way trade deals. We’re changing that one around very quickly.
 They believe America is the world’s piggy bank and that your tax dollars should subsidize the economy, military and defense of every other nation in the world but our own. It’s not happening anymore. Our political opposition made its fortune selling out our nation and its citizens. And you know that’s what’s been happening. And that’s why 2016 was so important. And that’s why 2020, I can never say it’s more important, but you know it’s like the roots of a tree. You plant the baby tree, it’s got to catch, get that extra time. We’ll have more tax cuts. We’ll have even … I’ll tell you what, we have rebuilt our military. What we’ve done has never been done before.
 The do nothing democrats have betrayed our country and that great betrayal is over. We are finally again, and we’ve been doing it now for almost three years. Can you believe we’ve been doing this for three years? Can you believe it? I’ve been a politician for three years. I can’t believe that. I never thought I’d be called a politician. I don’t like it. But it is what it is. But we’re finally again putting America first. The radical Democrats want to destroy America as we know it. They want to indoctrinate our children and teach them that America is a sinful, wicked nation. You see that happening all the time. And I know it from personal experience. What they want to teach your kids, not good. They come home, mommy, daddy, this is what I learned. And you’re going, oh no, don’t tell me. Let’s get them into another school fast. They want to disarm law abiding citizens. They want to take your guns away. They want to install far left judges to shred our constitution. It’s not happening. They want to tear down symbols of faith and drive Christians and religious believers from the public square. They want to silence your voices on social media and they want the government to censor, muzzle, and shut down conservative voices. You know that.
 If they didn’t hate our country, they wouldn’t be doing this to our country. They wouldn’t be doing it because they know better. They know better. As an example, we’re building a great wall along the Southern border and it’s going up rapidly. Going up. And you know, five years ago almost every one of them wanted a wall until I came along and I said, we’re going to build a great wall because they could never get it done. Then they stopped the funding. They made it almost impossible.
 Few people would’ve been able to do what we did, but we got it from here and we got it from there and we got it from all over the place and we’re building that sucker right now and it’s having a tremendous effect already. Not easy. Highest level. Everything we said it would be, it’s moving rapidly. Although the fake news back there, they don’t want to talk about it. They don’t want to talk about it. Look at all those cameras. You believe it. Look at all those red lights. Don’t worry. I won’t say anything bad about your network because a lot of times I get ready to do a number of these phony networks and you know, you see those red lights go off, off, off, off. They don’t want their viewers to see it, but that’s okay. I’m not going to say it tonight. I’m going to say you’re legitimate media. I don’t actually mean that. But you look at that. But look at all those cameras.
 You know that’s like the Academy Awards used to be before it failed. You know why it failed? You know why it failed? Because they came after us. That’s why it failed. It failed because they had stupid people saying horrible things about us. Stupid. stupid people. They are stupid people and their ratings have dropped like a rocket. I love seeing it. I’m telling you. Love it. But no matter how hard they try, they will fail because the people of Texas and the people of America will never surrender our freedom to those people right there. We will stand strong for family, faith, God, and for country.
 Last week, a very dumb Democrat candidate for president, that’s the end of him in this state, pledged to revoke the tax exempt status of many churches and religious charities. By the way, that was after a few weeks ago. He said, excuse me, we’re going to take your guns away. That doesn’t work well with me. I called him right. Remember the flailing arms? Nobody noticed it. I noticed it. The flailer. You remember he was flailing all over the place. I said why is this guy hot? John Cornyn’s going to win so easily. Just like Ted Cruz won. He’s going to win no matter what happens.
 But John Cornyn is not talking about Beto anymore because Beto, in a few short weeks got rid of guns and got rid of religion. Those are not two good things in Texas to get rid of. I will never allow the federal government to be used to punish Americans for their religious beliefs. I will never allow the IRS to be used as a political weapon, except in the case of myself where they use it against me. The radical left tolerates no dissent. It permits no opposition. It accepts no compromise. These people are crazy. And it has absolutely no respect for the will of the American people. First it was the Russia hoax. Then it was the smearing which continues, that disgraceful, disgusting smearing of a fine man, Justice Kavanaugh. And now they continue the outrageous impeachment witch hunt with nothing. With nothing. They come after me, but what they’re really doing is they’re coming after the Republican party and what they’re really, really doing is they’re coming after and fighting you. And we never lose. I’m fighting for everyone who believes in the values, traditions, and principles that have made our nation the greatest in the history of the world. And I have to say this, we are far greater now than ever before. You go back four years, you go back seven, six, eight, even you go back into another administration, you go back 10 and 12 years, where were you compared to where you are right now?
 We must hold the Democrats accountable for their lies and their corruption. They are corrupt people. And we must show and vote and we have to go out and we have to win this election coming up. It’s going to be a landslide and we have to make it a landslide. Today’s do nothing democrats, they don’t do anything. Where’s the USMCA? Everybody wants it. The Democrats even want it and crazy Nancy won’t let anybody vote on it. She’s nuts. Today’s Democrats believe anyone who opposes them must be crushed. It’s not just like, let’s win. You know, I have to say this. The Republicans said, I’m not sure I like this because my life hasn’t been this way, but the Republicans play a much softer game. They really do. When all of our stars, and we have great stars, when they went to our speaker of the house at the time and they asked for subpoenas, oh, let’s take it easy. Let’s … okay. I mean, I get that too. She hands them out like it’s cookies. Here. Subpoena.
 I heard a commentator who happens to be standing right there the other day. Doesn’t like us at all. But said, I’ve never seen anyone hand out so many subpoenas. I have people getting subpoenas I never heard of. I said, who are those people? Never saw anything like it. It’s a disgrace what they’re doing to our country. We became, because of what they do, not the Republicans and not what we’ve done because what they’ve done and what they see. When people come to my office, which is now the oval office, which is your office too.
 Presidents, Prime Ministers, Kings, Queens. I hate to say it. Sometimes dictators, they just don’t like to go by that title. They say, sir, congratulations sir on what you’ve done. Congratulations on what you’ve done. It’s incredible. Your economy is the greatest on earth. And let me tell you it, if my crooked opponent would have won the election right now China would be by far the number one nation from an economic standpoint in the world. We’ve gone up trillions of dollars. They’ve gone down trillions of dollars, and we are so far number one, so far that they’ll never catch us if we are smart right here. But the do nothing Democrats believe anyone who opposes them has to be crushed. They don’t want to just beat them. They don’t want to just beat him. These are sick people. They want to crush these people. The anger, the hatred, and that any lie or crime or corruption is justified so Schiff gets up and makes up my statement. He makes it up 100% and then he said he didn’t speak to the whistle blower. No, we didn’t see the whistleblower. And what about the whistleblower? The whistleblower got it all wrong. Who’s the whistleblower? Who’s the whistleblower? Who is the whistleblower? We have to know. Is the whistleblower a spy? And who is the IG that did this? All he had to do is look at the tape or look at what they wrote down, the transcribed version of the phone call. Compare that to the whistle blower’s account and you see it had nothing to do with it. So why does the IG allow a thing like this to happen to our country? Why? Why?
 Got a lot of bad people out there, but one by one we’re advancing. One by one. Just look at the terrible foreign corruption of the Bidens. I hate to talk about him. You know why? I don’t think the guy’s got a chance. Sleepy Joe. I don’t think he’s got it. I don’t see it. I don’t know. I’ve got these great, brilliant senators over here. I have all these congressmen over here. Fellows I don’t think he has a chance. I’d like him to. I’d like him to. You know I thought Pocahontas was gone, left in embers. You got to give her credit. Those embers, they kept going, going, going. Now it looks like she’s doing better. But I don’t think Joe has a chance.
 But did you see the other night where CNN, in a totally unsubstantiated statement, the president said this about you. We’re so sorry he said that. His son walked out with a billion and a half dollars from China. These were not the same Chinese people I just dealt with. I will tell you that. But Joe Biden was in charge of Ukraine policy while his son with absolutely no energy experience just got thrown out of the Navy like a dog, was paid massive sums of money by a Ukrainian energy company. You know that’s called? It’s called a payoff, folks. He didn’t no energy at all, knew nothing about energy. They hired him, paying him massive amounts of money, much more than the $50,000 a month you heard about. That’s a lot. That’s a lot. But much more.
 Joe Biden made them go out and fire the prosecutor on tape. But they don’t want to show the tape. I had to put it up on my social media site. They don’t want to show the tape where he was bragging. You’re not going to get this money unless they get rid of … and boom, they got rid of the prosecutor. He was investigating the son and the son’s company. Got rid of him. Now that’s what you call quid pro quo. While these charges are totally unsubstantiated. These are the fake newsers out there. And then Biden flew. Think of it. He goes into a tough place.
 We just met such a great deal with China. Just think of this. My guy said, if we could get 20 billion in agricultural product, that would be good. The most China ever did was 16 billion for our farmers. Okay. We’re just talking about the farmers. We did banking. We did everything. But we’re talking about them. The most they ever did was 20 billion of product from our farmers. Our great farmers. Our patriot farmers. Our farmers that never left us even though they were being targeted by China. They never left me. So they wanted 20 in China agreed. I said, nope, no good. I want 50 billion, not 20 billion. 50. So my guys say, sir, we have a problem, sir. Our farmers cannot produce that much. It’s true. I said, tell them to go out and get bigger tractors, right? John Deere case, Caterpillar, all American. Only American tractors. We only buy American tractors. Go out and get bigger. So now China’s agreed. They’ve already started buying. Hopefully the agreement gets signed sometime prior to a big summit that we have with president Xi and others in Chile. That’s in about four weeks.
 But they give this. They said, sir, they can’t produce $50 billion. I said, I want the farmers to tell me … remember the story about winning? We’re going to win so much. We’re going into the White House. We’re going to tell the president, sir, we just can’t stand winning. The state of Texas, John Cornyn and Ted Cruz, they’re going to come into my office. Sir, we just can’t stand this winning in Texas anymore. It’s too much. We can’t handle it. Well, that’s what I want from the farmers. I want the farmers to say. I want the farmers to say, sir, we just can’t produce that much product. We can’t do it, sir. And I’m going to say yes, you can. And they’re going to say, no, we can’t. I’m going to say yes you can. And they’re going to go out and they get to take in 50 billion from China as opposed to 20. That’s what’s going to happen. That’s what’s going to happen.
 But they were great. They stuck with us through thick and thin. Now it’s really working out for a lot of different groups. In the meantime we’ve taken in tens of billions of dollars of tariffs and China’s eaten the cost because they devalued their currency and they put money out. Tens of billions of dollars. It’s cost us nothing. Billions and billions and billions. You know what I did for the farmer? During the lean times, I gave them 16 billion last year and 12 billion the year before. $28 billion altogether came out of the tariffs that I had a lot of money leftover and nobody complained.
 You know our farmers didn’t want that money. Our farmers didn’t want it. True story. Everybody comes for money. Countries come for … everybody wants money, right? They all want our money. The farmers said, sir, we don’t want this money. It’s a subsidy. We don’t want it. I said, no, it’s not a subsidy. You’re being targeted unfairly. They said, no, sir, it’s a subsidy. This is true. I had 35 farmers in the oval office. Incredible people. They didn’t want it. They said, sir, just give us a level field. So now I gave them a field that’s more than level. It’s level like this. Nice and easy. Nice and easy.
 But the farmers, I call them the great patriots the farmers. I never lost them. They always said, yeah, I’m in trouble. I got a problem. But this should have been done many, many years ago by other presidents and other leaders. And we lose for many years $500 billion a year with China and many other countries we lose billions. We lose with everybody. But that’s all changing now. But we lose 500 billion, not million. 500 millions is a lot, right? We lose 500 billion. And you know what? It’s a disgrace that that was allowed to go on for 25 years. It was a disgrace. Disgrace.
 But now we’re taking in billions of dollars. They’ve had the worst year they’ve had in 27 years and we’re having the best year we’ve ever had. So that’s good. That’s good.
 So Biden flew with Hunter on Air Force 2. They flew to China. Hunter walked out of the plane, had a quick meeting, walked away with one and a half billion dollars. These characters back there said, oh, that’s okay. There’s no problem. Can you imagine if Don or Eric Trump or Ivanka Trump, who’s here someplace … right here. And by the way, our great First Lady is home watching this. She said, this is the most exciting thing I’ve seen in a long time. You’re a great First Lady. Doing a great job. She’s doing a great job. We’re doing a great job. The whole country now is doing a great job.
 So Biden takes 1,500,000,000 and he goes on and he allows China to rip us off. Remember he said a year ago? No, no, China’s good. They’ve done nothing wrong. They are wonderful people. They are all wonderful people. I don’t blame China, by the way. I blame our leaders for allowing this horrible, you know what and pillage. It’s the R word. You know what and pillage. You know what word I’m talking about, right? I don’t want to use it because they’ll say it’s a horrible word that Trump used. So the Biden’s got rich while America got robbed. Tonight we forcefully condemn the blatant corruption of the Democrat party and nobody ever pays the price with the Democrats.
 They’re so deep seeded. They never pay the price. They never pay. But maybe soon that will start. You know, we’ve had a lot of, we’ve had a lot of Obama people and Clinton people and some, to be honest with you, we’ve had some pretty bad Republicans down deep that didn’t exactly love us. But slowly they’re getting out. They have all sorts of protections. He says get rid of them. Yeah, we’re trying. Get rid of them. But their partner in the whole thing is the fake news media. That’s the problem.
 Because the Democrats and the fake news media, it’s a partnership. Remember that. And you see it all the time, and I’ve never seen it to this extent. You know, when I won in the primaries and then I won the election, I was treated horribly by the media, horribly. And then when I won the election, we had the greatest night, one of the highest rated nights in the history of television all over the world. And I won. And I said, oh, the great thing. I said to Ivanka, I said to the first lady, I said to anybody that would listen, I said, listen, this is so great. Finally, finally, we, all of us, we’re going to be respected by the media. And you know what happened? They got worse. They’re worse now than they ever have been. They’re crooked as hell. They’re worse now than they’ve ever been. They’re crooked.
 The only message these radicals, and they are radical lefties, will understand is a crushing defeat on November 3rd, 2020. Save that date. With your help, we will win back the house. We …
 With your help, we will win back the House, we will keep the Senate, and we will keep the White House in numbers like they haven’t seen in a long, long time. Joining us tonight are many terrific Republican leaders, and they are terrific. And frankly, if they’re not, I’m not going to introduce them, okay? But we have some great leaders, and you have great leaders in Texas. Great leaders, and they love Texas.
 A friend of mine, a guy that a lot of people weren’t so sure, we had this unbelievable relationship. In fact, when Ted Cruz held a rally in Washington, he said, “Could you come to my rally?” And everybody thought, these people thought that was strange. They said to me, “Well, when is the fighting between these two?” Because we really like each other. “When’s the fighting going to start?” Right, Ted? They said, “When is the fighting going to start? And I said, “Don’t worry, it’ll start. And when it does, it’s going to be vicious.” And it was vicious, and now we love each other again. He’s great. Ted Cruz. And he had a great victory against a man that spent almost $100 million dollars. That’s a lot of money. Spent almost $100 million, but that was a great victory. Thank you, Ted. Another man who’s currently running against somebody. I kept thinking maybe Beto will jump in because he’s at zero right now. We hope he’s going to jump in. Remember, no religion and no guns. I think that’s not good.
 Oh, and I think he’s like pretty light on oil production too. But a man and John, I have no idea who you’re running against, but nobody’s going to be able to beat John Cornyn. He’s a good man, you’re good man, thank you, John. And we have a lot of Congress people here. We have a woman who’s fantastic, who has been a fan of ours right from the beginning, Kay Granger. Thank you, Kay. We have a man who’s smart as hell and he is tough and he is mean and nasty, but he loves this state and he’s only mean and nasty because he wants to defend you and me and all of the horrible things that we all go through, Louie Gohmert.
 Louie, he’s a great guy, been a great friend of mine. I’ll tell you once we got him on board, he wouldn’t leave us no matter what. And he had Mueller and everybody figured out long before anybody else had it figured out, right, Louie? A person who’s been an incredible ally, again, loves your state, Randy Weber. Thank you Randy. Great job, thank you. One of the best lawyers you’ll ever find. He’s slick, he’s smooth, but boy he’s loyal, he’s talented and he’s got them all buffaloed because they’re not as good as him, John Ratliff, thank you John.
 A man I saw on television last night defending me, brilliantly defending me. I actually don’t like doing this usually, but I tweeted out, I said, “Thank you very much Brian Babin. That was a great defense, I appreciate it.” Thank you Brian, that was great last night. See I put a tweet out because it’s easier than making a phone call and talking for a half hour, thanks Brian. I just said thanks. And you know what, he’d rather have that too actually, right? And Lance Gooden, special person, Lance Gooden,, thank you Lance. Thank you, Lance. And Lance was one of 60 people that stuck in there, he was unbelievable. And Ron Wright, thank you, Ron. Great job. Great job. These are great people. These are great people along with Republican party chairs and all of these total winners. Here’s one, Ronna McDaniel, I’ll tell you what, you know, Ronna was the head of Michigan. Michigan hadn’t been won by a Republican for decades and it was tough. They all said you couldn’t win Michigan. I said, “Why? We’re getting these massive crowds, why”? And she was in charge of Michigan and I said, “I want you to do me a favor. Find out who this woman is. She’s driving me crazy. She calls me, Just one more trip, sir, one more trip. Who is she? Who is she?” And it was Ronna and we won the State of Michigan, we won.
 And when it came time, when it came time to picking somebody to head the RNC, Republican National Committee, I said, “What about that woman that drove me crazy from Michigan?” And it was Ronna and she’s done a fantastic job. Thank you, thank you, Ronna. Thank you, she’s fantastic. And a great governor from your state, he’s a great, great man and a friend of mine. And together with your Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick. Well you had a hurricane, two years ago now. They still keep calling me for money. “Sir, could you give us another?” When the governor called up, Dan was there, “Thank you for being so generous to Texas, sir, the hurricane.” It was a big one, it was a bad one. A lot of water dump. I think the biggest dump of water, remember kept going in and out, in and out. Our Coast Guard saved 16,000 lives. But it kept going in and out, water, water.
 And finally I get a call. I paid billions and billions of dollars to the state. Like numbers, my people are driving me crazy. I get a call from the governor and Dan is there. Where’s Dan? Is he here? Where’s Dan? Dan, Dan Patrick. And the two of them call me. And then I had Ted Cruz on my back and I had John Cornyn on my back and I had the Congressman calling and it was brutal, it wasn’t even fair. And they said, “Sir, thank you for being so generous on the hurricane.” They made a fortune. You made a fortune on the hurricane. “Thank you for being so generous, sir. Sir, we want one more small request, just a small, it’s not much and we appreciate your listening to us. We want to build a dam in the ocean so that if we ever have another hurricane, sir, the water won’t be able to come into Houston and all of the areas that have came into, sir, do you think we could do it? I said, “How much? It’s only $10 billion. $10 billion!” Right Ted, right?
 $10 billion they wanted, 10. And you know the way they sell it and it’s so good they’re salesman, they’re incredible salesman. They say it’s only 10 billion. I’m supposed to be happy. Oh, let’s see, could we give Texas an extra 10 billion for some, crazy thing that may work and it may not, right? No, they’re great people. They love your state. RNC, co-chairman, Tommy Hicks, a real friend of ours. Thank you, Tommy. And our great campaign manager, the most sophisticated man with a computer you’ve ever seen. Remember they used to say with Hillary, her campaign is so sophisticated. Then after she lost, they said, Trump’s campaign was so sophisticated. And remember she spent like six times more on this stuff than we did. You know the old days, my father taught me, if you can spend less, that’s a good thing not a bad thing, right? My father said, if you can spend less. So we spent much less then Hillary, crooked Hillary, crooked Hillary.
 Where are those emails, Hillary? They may find those 33,000 emails. They’re looking, they may find those deleted emails. They may find them. Remember the emails, 33,000 emails covering her gym and her daughter’s wedding, 33,000 that’s a lot of emails for a wedding and working out. But Brad Parscale did a great job. Thank you, Brad, thank you. Thank you, Brad. And Secretary of Commerce, one of the legends of Wall Street, he was really like amazing and he is doing an incredible job, Wilbur Ross. Thank you, Wilbur. Smart guy. And a friend of mine, he’s another one. He was so tough. He was nasty, man. Boy, he hit me during the campaign. I said, “That guy’s ruthless.” And when it was sort of over, there was nobody more gracious and I called him, I made him Secretary of Energy, he’s done a phenomenal job. And Rick Perry couldn’t have done a better job, truly, truly.
 And he’s going to be leaving at the end of the year and probably coming back here. Whatever he does it’s going to be successful. But he spent three years with us and I want to thank you, Rick, what a job you done, thank you. What a job he’s done. He was also a great governor of Texas that you know. In everything we do, we’re fighting for the faithful citizens of this country. This includes putting a stop to the catastrophic era of endless wars. Endless wars, they don’t stop. They don’t stop. They go on forever. We become policemen. We end up becoming police, were policing these countries. That’s not what it’s about. We’ve spent eight trillion dollars in the Middle East. Thousands of American soldiers have lost their lives. Tens of thousands more have been severely wounded, and in all fairness, the other side has lost millions of people. Millions, millions of people, think of it.
 These wars brought mass chaos, instability, destruction and death. Today we choose a different path. We had tremendous success today. I don’t know if you’ve seen it. We built in the last three years, we built the strongest military by far. And I told this story, I was embarrassed to tell it, but now I’ll tell, when I first got in, a general told me we could’ve had a conflict with someone said, “Sir, we don’t have ammunition.” And I said, “I never want to hear a president … I just never want to hear somebody have that statement made to them again as President of the United States, we don’t have ammunition.” Think of how bad. Now we have so much ammunition we don’t know what to do with it.
 And as you all know, I guess you’ve been watching today. I sent Vice President Pence and Secretary of State Pompeo to lead an American delegation to meet with President Erdogan of Turkey. They got there today and it did work. Without spilling a drop of American blood, not one drop of American blood. We’ve all agreed on a pause or a ceasefire in the border region of Syria and it was unconventional what I did. I said, “They’re going to have to fight a little while. Sometimes you have to let them fight a little while. Then people find out how tough the fighting is.” These guys know right up here, these guys know, right? Sometimes you have to let them fight like two kids in a lot. You got to let them fight and then you pull them apart. But it was unconventional, but they fought for a few days and it was pretty vicious.
 And the Kurds, who are our friends and Turkey’s our friend. But they fought, it was tougher. I mean it was nasty and you couldn’t make a deal for 15, think of it, for 15 years, 20 years, they couldn’t make a deal. The Kurds didn’t want to move. Turkey didn’t want to budge, and Turkey was having a lot of bad things happen from this region. In all fairness to Turkey, they were having a lot of bad, but they didn’t … Now all of a sudden they’re fighting and it’s not fun having bullets going all over the place. And we went there and we said, we want to pause, and the Kurds have been terrific. They’re going to move back a little bit. We’re going to keep ISIS all nice and locked up, okay. We’re going to find more of them.
 And Turkey’s all set and President Erdogan one was great and we’re going to take the worst sanctions and tariffs and everything that I put on the country, we put the worst, I mean, I don’t think they could have economically survived, but that doesn’t matter. President Erdogan was a gentleman. He understood it, but without a little tough love. You know what tough love is, right? Without a little tough love, they would have never made this deal. President Obama lost a million people in the area, a million people, a million people.
 So now we’re doing a five day period, we’re going to see if we can get it all finalized and I think it will be, I think it will be. So Turkey’s going to be happy. The Kurds are going to be happy, ISIS is going to be unhappy. We’ll deal with whoever we have to deal with, but we’ll get it done. And it’s a great tribute to a lot of very talented people and thank you to Vice President Pence and thank you to Mike Pompeo. Good job, good job and they’re traveling back to our country by night. They’re traveling back and they’ll be back soon and we’ll have a big conference on it. But it was a terrific thing and we’ve taken care of a lot of religious persecution. We added that in. A lot of things are in that agreement that nobody ever thought possible.
 So we have to fundamentally change our approach to Homeland Security as an example. In that example, nobody would’ve ever done that. You have to be a little bit different to do it that way. I took a lot of heat, even from some of our Congressman, even from some of our Senators, but now they’re all happy and I’m happy with them. I’m happy with them. Now, I don’t know what about the Democrats? The Democrats will say, “Oh, what a terrible …” Anything we do the Democrats will criticize. If I said, like on the China deal, “We get Beijing for one dollar.” They would say, “What a terrible deal.” It just doesn’t work with them. You know the wall. We spend so much time with them on the wall and I realized about two weeks ago, all I had to do is say, “We will never build a wall.” And they would have come through and they said, “We demand that you build it.” It would have been so much easier, right. Would have been so much easier, Ted, would’ve been so much easier. American combat troops should not be at the center of ancient sectarian conflicts all over the world. Bring our soldiers back home. Bring our soldiers back home.
 Bring them home! Bring them home! USA! USA! USA!
 The same people pushing us to fight endless wars overseas want us to open our borders to mass migration from these war torn and terror afflicted regions. Their policies would import terrorism right onto our shores with American issued visas. Oh, isn’t that wonderful? And by the way, the Democrats want open borders. They want everybody to flow in. They want those caravans to flow in, the caravans. And they wouldn’t get rid of the loopholes. But you know what? Mexico’s been great. Mexico today had 27,000 soldiers on our border and we’ve stopped this horrible migration of people. And many of them are bad people. You know when countries send them up, they’re not sending their finest, okay, use your heads, they’re not sending their finest. You’ve got to see some of the people. But now we send them back. And by the way, ICE is fantastic. They’ve taken out thousands and thousands of MS-13 killers. They’ve taken thousands of killers and brought them back.
 And now we’ve made deals with Guatemala and Honduras and El Salvador and Mexico. But we’ve made deals now where we can bring back, there are 45,000 people waiting in Mexico. But it’s going to be very tough for these people ever to get back. When did you ever hear that? Used to have no people waiting in Mexico. They just flooded. Our borders are getting strong. When the wall is complete, there’ll be as strong as any borders anywhere in the world. My administration believes in a simple principle, the best way to keep foreign terrorists out of America is deny them, just deny them admission in the first place. It’s really pretty simple. And that is why I have imposed, and we had passed and we won at the United States Supreme Court, a travel ban on some of the world’s most dangerous countries and places.
 But if Democrats seize power, they would throw the floodgates wide open, wide open. We would have people coming into our country, look at what’s going on in California and the people of California don’t want it, they say, come into California. We’ll give you free healthcare, free education. Why wouldn’t … I may even move to California if they keep going. No, but all it does is it brings everybody in. What’s wrong with these people? We’re rebuilding our military stronger than ever before and we are not going to deplete it again on stupid, senseless, endless wars. We’ve invested more than two and a half trillion dollars restoring our armed forces and all of it was built in the USA and that includes approving the construction of almost 200 F-35 fighters, stealth, stealth. And many of them are built right here, right here. You know that right, in Fort Worth. As we restore our security, we’re also restoring our prosperity. America is winning again and America is respected again. And by the way, I have to say this, so outside they have close to 30,000 people. And I wonder if I could ask the Fire Marshal, fill up this little area, let them in, it would be so nice. You know they have a certain max, we broke the record tonight. Good place.
 Last month, unemployment reached its lowest level in 51 years. Seven million Americans have been lifted off food stamps since the election. What a great … One point three million children have been lifted out of poverty, think of that. And African American, Hispanic American and Asian American unemployment rates have reached the lowest levels in history. Our great Hispanic American population has reached a poverty level, which is a all time low in U.S. history. And after years of stagnation, wages for Hispanic Americans are rising fast, up nearly eight percent since my election and everybody in the fake news would have said that’s absolutely impossible. Medium income, think of this, median income for Hispanic Americans has surpassed $50,000 a year for the first time ever. With Republicans in Congress, we passed the largest package of tax cuts and reform by far in American history. By the way, the Democrats want to raise your taxes, you know. I don’t mean a little bit.
 I don’t mean a little bit. I mean like double them up, triple them up and it’s still won’t pay for the nonsense they want. We eliminated a record number of regulations and we ended the war on a thing called American energy, which is very good for Texas. Since my election, natural gas production in Texas has increased 35% and oil production has increased by 60%, six oh. And the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world, world. Yet every major Democrat running for president wants to abolish all production of oil and natural gas. I think they want to go to windmills, windmills, you know. “Darling, I want to watch Trump speak tonight. We can’t darling, the wind isn’t blowing.” They want windmills. In other words, they want to annihilate your Texas economy. Can you imagine? No more oil, no more natural.
 So here we have a few people, right? No guns, no religion, no oil, no natural gas. Abraham Lincoln could not win Texas under those circumstances. Couldn’t do it, couldn’t do it, Ted. Couldn’t do it, Louis. Abraham Lincoln, Honest Abe, couldn’t do it, Louie, right? Remember I used to say I can be more presidential, look. I’ve always said I can be more presidential than any president in history except for Honest Abe Lincoln when he’s wearing the hat. That’s tough, that’s tough. That’s a tough one to beat. No, it’s much easier, being presidential is easy. All you have to do is act like a stiff, look.
 Ladies and gentlemen of Texas, it is a great honor to be with you this evening. And the media would love it and everybody would be out of here so fast. You wouldn’t have come in in the first place when you get right down to it, but Democrats will never get that chance because Texas will never give it to them. Texas [inaudible 00:59:49]
 Remember the last election, they said these phonies in the back, they said, Texas is in play. They said you’d toss in play too. And I came here, we had rallies like this. Thousands of people outside that couldn’t get in. And I said, “Why is Texas in play?” They say because it’s voting, it’s suppression. They try and get your hopes down. They’re suppressed. This is just like fake news. But they said Texas, they said Texas is in play. “Ladies and gentlemen, Texas is play. This is CNN, Texas is in play. President Trump …” And I had guys on from Texas and they’re wearing cowboy hats. Sid and a lot of guys. They go, “I don’t know about you, but I know something about Texas and Donald Trump is not going to lose Texas. I can tell you that and Texas is not in play.”
 Well, we had a lot of guys, Sid, big tough guys. They’re on television. No, I don’t know what you’re talking about, Texas is not in play. And then that great November 8th, we had that great, great night. And the polls close at 7:00 o’clock and usually they have to take hours and sometimes at least even if it’s big, they take a half an hour. The Texas polls have closed and usually if it’s close, it takes hours. And if it’s not even just like so close, it takes a long time. So they go, “Ladies and gentlemen, the polls have closed in the State of Texas. Donald Trump has won the State of Texas. Right, Donald Trump.”
 The polls have closed in Utah, remember the guy with the shaved head, he was going to be my competition. Even Hillary beat him. Now he’s on these talk shows, knocking the hell out of me all the time. Even Hillary beat this guy in Utah, right? Hillary came in second. I came in first by a lot, but that was another one, too close to call. Except, “Ladies and gentleman, Utah, the polls have closed. Donald Trump has won the State of Utah.” [inaudible 01:02:19] And we won by a lot. We won by a lot. And we won Florida and we won South Carolina and we won Georgia and we won North Carolina and we won Pennsylvania. We won a lot.
 Remember these phony people, there is no way to get to 270 you had to get to … So I kept going to Maine. I love Maine, but Maine too, you get one. It’s cut in half. Maine too you get one. I went there four or five times because … They got me up, the phonies, they got me up to 269, couldn’t get to 270 so I went … I won, by the way, I won Maine too. I got one. But I went there and I went there a lot. That’s the beautiful thing about the electoral college, you go everywhere. You don’t just spend the three … winning the popular vote would be much easier. I’d rather have that. I’d go to four states and relax. I went to 21 States.
 I used to be a believer in the other, but I think winning … It’s like you’re a track star. You’re working out for the a hundred yard dash or the mile, it’s a different form of training. It’s a different form. But we did great. They said he cannot get to 270 and they were right. We got to 306. After decades of economic surrender, I have taken historic action to confront China’s-
 … have taken historic action to confront China’s rampant trading abuses, and we’ve made great progress. And our relationship with China is fantastic, and great things are happening. You watch. They get it now. They get it. And a lot of good things are happening.
 We’re replacing NAFTA with disastrous, I mean, it’s been, to me, probably … I used to call it the worst trade deal in history. I think the World Trade has been … WTO, what a real beauty, the World Trade Organization. That’s a real beauty.
 They consider China a developing nation. And because you’re a developing nation, Ted, right? They consider China to be a developing nation, and because they’re developing, they get tremendous … And we wrote them letters. We don’t consider them to be a developing nation. We don’t consider India to be a develop… because they’re ripping us off. And we didn’t win any cases at the WTO, and now we just won $7.5 billion of countries that were taking taking advantage of us.
 And we’ve won a lot of cases lately. We didn’t win anything for years practically. Now we’ve won a lot of cases. You know why? Because they know I’ll leave if they don’t treat us fairly. They know it. And then the piggy bank is gone where they all rob from.
 We’re replacing the NAFTA disaster. And we have to get this crazy Nancy Pelosi to put this thing up for a vote. We have to get her. And the USMCA is a giant victory for Texas farmers, ranchers, manufacturers, workers, and oil. The Democrats should pass it, overwhelmingly. They will. But Nancy has to put it up for a vote. Do-nothing Democrats. They’re do-nothing.
 Nowhere is the Democrat betrayal of our nation more dramatic than on immigration. In recent debates, did you see these debates? Do you believe what I’m competing with? I don’t know, when I had to compete with Ted Cruz, that was brutal. He was the national debate chamption, a story I’ve never told. I never did that before, right? I ran for office. All of a sudden, I’m supposed to be debating tomorrow night.
 I said: “Who are these people?”
 The hell, I don’t know all of them. I know a lot of them. I contributed to a lot of them. They used to treat me very nice when I contributed to them. Not so nice when I was their opponent, that changed a lot.
 But I said: “Let me see, I want to see, who are these people?”
 I’m going to a debate. I never debated. My whole life has been a debate, but I never debated with a podium, and this, and that.
 And we had 17 people, plus me. We had 18. It was actually not 17, it was 18. Remember Gilmore? Nobody remembers him. But we had 18 people.
 I said, “Who are these people? Are they any good at debating?” And I hired a debate coach, and he lasted for about 10 minutes.
 I said: “This guy knows less than I do.”
 He didn’t know anything. He didn’t know anything, it’s true. He said, “Never ever interrupt while they’re speaking.”
 I said: “Okay, coach. Put me in, coach.” And after a couple of those statements, I mean … I mean, you can’t beat Ted Cruz if you don’t interrupt him. It’s impossible.
 But my first … It’s true. So I see, “Let me see the cards. Let me see the whole thing. I want to see it. I need help. I’m going to be debating in front of millions of people.”
 And everyone’s saying, “Do you think Trump’s going to be able to debate professionally?”
 I said: “Let me see these cards.”
 And all of them: “You know, he was president of his class. One guy was a good debater in college. He was this, he was okay.”
 But they give me the first card, Ted Cruz, and it says, “National debate champion from Princeton.” Is that right? And then, “National debate champion from Harvard.”
 I said to my wife, first lady, potentially, I said: “My potential first lady, I got a problem.”
 I said: “Some of these guys are okay. They were only president of the class.”
 Almost all of them ran for president of the class. I never did. I liked playing baseball better.
 But I said, “Melania,” and I called Ivanka, I called my kids, I said, “I got a problem. Ted Cruz was the national debate, he was the number one guy in college. He was the number one guy in law school. How the hell do I beat a guy that’s that good at debating?”
 But we came out okay, Ted. And Ted, Ted was tough. Smart as hell and tough. Tough. Good man. But it is true. The first card I looked at, seriously, it was Ted Cruz. And he was literally, I mean, national debate, he was the best in all of college and in law school. And he’s a talented guy.
 In recent debates, you see these people up there. They’re not Ted Cruz, believe me. Hey Ted, you should turn Democrat. You would win in that group [inaudible 00:01:09:44]. No, he says. I don’t think so.
 Every single Democrat candidate for president raised their hand in favor of giving free healthcare to all illegal aliens. They want to give more to illegal aliens than they give to American citizens. You see that. As president, I will never allow the Democrats to take away your healthcare dollars and give them to people that are in our country illegally. Can’t do it.
 In fact, I just signed an executive action to protect American healthcare benefits for all American citizens. Among those hardest hit by illegal immigration are millions of legal immigrants right here in Texas, including millions of patriotic, hardworking Mexican-Americans who play by the rules, pay their taxes, follow our laws, and strengthen our communities. Whether you are a first-generation or tenth-generation, and every American citizen, and you do, you’ve been treated so badly. But you’re not being treated badly anymore. You know?
 We got rid of the individual mandate from crazy Obamacare. Every American citizen deserves a government that defends your jobs, your safety, your family, your borders, and is always loyal to you for a change. We’re loyal to you.
 My administration has reduced illegal border crossings by over 60% since May. And that’s with no help from the Democrats. They won’t close up the loopholes. They won’t close the loopholes, and we could do it in 15 minutes. And we’re building the wall and we’re doing all of these things, but the Democrats won’t close up the loopholes. You know what the loopholes are, right? How about catch and release? You catch them. You say, “Hello, darling, how are you? Could you please give us your name and phone number?” They don’t have a phone. “Could you give us your address?” They don’t want to have That have a phone? Could you give us your address? They don’t want to have an address that’s in Honduras. “Could you please give us your address and your name?” They can’t. They say, “That’s okay. We catch and we release,” and they go into our country. And then we are getting them out of the country.
 And you know what? Some are very good people. Some are unbelievably dangerous and bad people. And we’re focusing on the bad and they’re getting the hell out of our country. Okay?
 While we’re fighting for shared priorities, the American people, the Democrat Party has never been farther outside of the mainstream. They’ve gone nuts. Every Democrat running for president is pushing a healthcare agenda that would utterly eviscerate Medicare. My administration will always protect Medicare for our beloved seniors. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
 Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in over 51 years. People don’t talk about it. The press will not talk about it. We have news conferences. We tell them this, they will not put it in the press. You have no idea how dishonest the media is. You have no idea.
 Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb right up until the moment of birth. And that crackpot governor from Virginia executes the baby after birth. You saw that, right? After birth. You remember that one from last year. That’s why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. Democrats are now the party of crazy politicians, high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption. They’re corrupt, like Schiff is corrupt. He’s corrupt.
 The Republican Party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and it’s the party of the American Dream. It’s also the party of Honest Abe Lincoln. We forget that. We got to use that more often. Don’t you think? Honest Abe. I liked Honest Abe.
 We’ve confirmed … He says “Honest Donald.” Thank you. Explain that to them. You’re right. We’ve confirmed 152 federal judges to apply the law as written, including two Supreme Court justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.
 When I got into office, they say the most important thing a president can do, I actually think it’s defense, but they say is the appointment of federal judges. So when I got in, always, when you get in, there are none.
 So I got to, I say, “How many federal judges do I have?”
 “Sir, you have 142 federal judges.”
 “No, you don’t understand the question.”
 That’s impossible. That would mean that President Obama didn’t appoint 142 judges. You get none. Or you’re doing a bad job as president because you’re representing a different philosophy. Very different.
 So I came, I said: “No, no, no. Check it again.” Then they said, “138.” Then they came back: “Actually, sir, the number is 142. We were right the first time.”
 142 judges. Within two months, we will have, John and Ted and all of these great congressmen, we will have passed 182 federal judges. And then they say: “Obama was … He’s such a wonderful president.” How are you a wonderful president when the most important thing you can do, you handed over to the Republicans. 142. How is that good? I mean, how is that good? If I were a Democrat, I wouldn’t be too happy about that number. And we’ll have a record number of judges by the time our term is over in 16 years, maybe 20. I’m only kidding. I’m only kidding because every time I do that, they say, “See, he’s assuming control.”
 We have this crazy guy on television. And he goes, “You know …” he’s talking to a guest, he goes, “You know he’s going to win, don’t you? You know he’s going to win.” I mean, we’ve done a good job. He should be happy.
 But he said, ” Our military, our schools, our this, everything.” He says, “You know he’s going to win.”
 And the guest goes, “Well, no, we’re going to fight. We’re going to fight.”
 “No, no, he’s going to win. And you know he’s never leaving. You know that, don’t you? He’s never leaving. He’s never going to leave.”
 And I thought this wacko was kidding. He’s a comedian. I thought he was kidding. He’s serious. He really believes that.
 We passed, for the veterans, VA Choice and VA Accountability on behalf of those great people. They’ve been trying to pass it for almost 50 years. They couldn’t get it done. But those guys right there, and me, we got it done. And to protect American security, I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. And we also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights.
 For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America. You’ve seen it many times. “Oh, I’m so sorry.” Now you have a president who’s standing up for America and standing up for your great state of Texas.
 You must never forget, the 2020 election is about one thing, and it’s coming up fast, it’s about you. It’s about you. One thing: about you. I’m doing this for you. You know, we had, in 2016, I really believe it was maybe the greatest election.
 I guess George Washington was good, right? But that was easy. And by the way, he did even better percentage-wise in judges than I did. He had 100%. but we could have 50%. That’s not bad. And I had many more than he had.
 So I guess you got to give George Washington, what do you think, Ted, you got to give him something?
 I’d say Honest Abe, that was a pretty good election, right?
 Andrew Jackson, they say ours topped Andrew Jackson. But Andrew Jackson was a good election.
 But we had among the greatest elections of all time. But we have to now cement that election. We got to cement it. And once we do, it’s going to be very hard to take this beautiful experiment apart. That’ll be very hard. Because it’s all about your family. It’s all about your future. And it’s all about the future fate of our great country. So important.
 With your help, we will lift millions of more citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair, and lawful system of immigration.
 And by the way, thank you, Robert Jeffress, for being here, wherever you may be in this massive … Wherever you are, Robert. Where is he? He got up, he started saying, “He may not be the greatest person.” I said … This is like four years ago, I see this guy, what a mouthpiece, this guy. And he’s a man of God.
 And he said: “He may not be the greatest, he may not be the most perfect Christian. He may not know the Bible as well as some of us, but he’s a leader. And I love Donald Trump.”
 I said: “Who is that guy? I love that guy.”
 Robert Jeffress. Wherever. He’s a great guy. Got a big, big group of people on Sunday mornings too, I can tell you.
 We will enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with those beautiful words, that beautiful phrase, I love it, “Made in the USA.”
 We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America in less than 10 years. We’re doing that. Who would have believed we could do that? We’re doing that. And the previous administration spent no money on that, and we’re spending a lot. But think of that. Who would have thought that we’re going to end, within 10 years, the AIDS epidemic in our country? Who would have thought we’ve advanced that far?
 We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that unite people all across our land and throughout the great state of Texas. This is a great state. We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. Thank you.
 We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true bedrocks of our society. We believe in the creeds of self-reliance, personal responsibility, and American independence.
 We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. Loyal citizens like you helped build this country. And together, we are taking back this country, our country. We love our country. We’re returning power to you, the American people. That’s what we’ve done.
 From Dallas to El Paso, from Houston to Austin, from the Red River to the Rio Grande, this state was settled by some of the toughest men and strongest women ever to walk on the face of the earth. Texas. This is the state where William Travis, James Bowie and Davy Crockett made their last stand at the Alamo. This is the state where a small band of patriots at the Battle of Gonzalez, armed with a single canon, stared down a foreign army and declared, ” Come and take it.”
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
 Thank you. And Texas is the state where generations of farmers, ranchers, pioneers, and oil workers built a life and a home with their own two beautiful hands. They didn’t have a lot of money. They didn’t have a lot of luxury, but they all had one thing in common: they loved their families, they loved their country, and they loved their God. These courageous Texas patriots did not shed their blood, sweat, and tears so that we could sit at home while others try to erase their legacy, demolish our liberty, and destroy our proud American heritage. We will never, ever allow that to happen. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting. And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
 We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America proud again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Texas. Thank you.
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the president of the United States, Donald J. Trump.
 Well, thank you very much. And hello, Tupelo. This is great to be with you tonight, the great state of Mississippi. The great state of Mississippi, and by the way, the birthplace of a gentleman, not too many people heard of him, Elvis Presley. But to be with thousands of incredible patriots who put their faith in God, family and country. Right?
 Four days from now, this state will head to the polls and vote to continue our extraordinary progress with your next governor, Republican Tate Reeves. Great guy. Great guy. Under Republican leadership, jobs are booming, confidence is soaring, wages are rising, crime is falling, and our nation is stronger than ever before. We’re now an economic powerhouse. We’ve never been in a position like it. We’ve rebuilt our military and we have financial strength. And by the way, for those of you with a thing called 401ks, the stock market hit, today, another all-time historic high.
 Unemployment in Mississippi has reached the lowest rate ever recorded, ever recorded. That’s not bad. That’s not bad when you’re on the debate stage and you say, “We have the best economy we’ve ever had. We have the best military we’ve ever had, the best unemployment and employment numbers we’ve ever had.”
 The best president [inaudible 00:08:43].
 Said, “Got the best president we’ve ever had.” Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
 Thank you very much. And very importantly, we’ve confirmed more than 158 brand new, beautiful federal judges to uphold our constitution as written. In a very short while, we’ll have 182 federal judges. President Obama left us 142. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, President Obama. He left us 142 openings. Can you believe that? You’re supposed to leave none when you leave office, but that didn’t work out too well. And just days ago, the United States brought the world’s number one terrorist leader to justice.
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
 We have great military. It was very, very depleted. When I came into office, it was very, very depleted, but it ain’t depleted anymore. Yep. al-Baghdadi, the founder and leader… Look, you’ve heard about it for a long time. I kept saying, “Where is al-Baghdadi? That’s the one I want. Where is he?” And then, by the way, the following day, we got number two. I don’t know if you read about that. But he was the founder and the leader of ISIS, and he’s dead. And Baghdadi, he was a Savage and soulless monster, but his reign of terror is over. American special operators executed a masterful raid that ended his wretched life and punched out his ticket to hell, I guess you could say. He spent his last miserable moments on Earth cowering and trembling and crying in fear of the American warrior that was right there going right up. No enemy stands a chance against the righteous bite of the United States military, and Mississippi loves our military, that I can tell you. And our military loves Mississippi.
 America is winning again, and America is all, over the world, respected again. It’s about time. But while we’re creating jobs and killing terrorists, the Democrat party has gone completely insane.
 The radical left is determined to transform America into a country you would not recognize. We are the ones standing in their way, and we will never get out of their way. It will be easy. From even before we won the election, the far-left Democrats and the fake news media right back there… Look at all of them, oh. It’s too bad we get such good ratings because if we didn’t, they wouldn’t be here. Look at how many. It’s like the Academy Awards before it failed. Right? And you know why it failed? Because they disrespected us.
 But the media and the Democrats have been engaged in a corrupt partnership, trying to impose their will and to thwart American democracy by any means necessary. You see what’s going on. First, they engineered the Russia hoax. That was a total hoax, the single greatest lies ever foisted upon the American people. Then the Mueller witch hunt, it never ended. With 18 angry Democrats and an unlimited budget, let’s go get him. That didn’t work out too well, did it? That fizzled. And a lot of bad people along the way.
 And now corrupt politicians, Nancy Pelosi-
 … and shifty Adam Schiff, Shifty. And the media are continuing with the deranged impeachment witch hunt. This is one I never thought I’d be involved in. The word impeachment… To me, it’s a dirty word, not a good word. Totally phony deal. They know it. Everybody knows it, and that’s why we’ve never had greater support than we have right now. It’s true. And if you think you have a lot of people in this room, all you have to do is go outside. You’ll see a lot more people trying to get in. So if anybody wants to give up your seat, please just walk out. Anybody want to leave?
 Because there really is. There’s no place better to have a rally, to have a good time, and to also, at the same time, be very serious than at a Trump rally, especially on Friday night in Mississippi. We could have done this one on Monday night. I said, “Let’s do Friday.” Right? Yesterday, the Democrats voted to potentially nullify the votes of 63 million Americans, disgracing themselves and bringing shame upon the House of Representatives.
 They’ve been plotting to overthrow the election since the moment I won. But the people here that are highly sophisticated, though, long before I won. 19 minutes after I took the oath of office, the horrible newspaper, fake, fake, fake Washington Post, declared, “The campaign to impeach President Trump has just begun.” At least they gave us 19 minutes. Yesterday’s vote by the radical Democrats is an attack on democracy itself. But I’ll tell you, the Republicans are really strong, the strongest I’ve ever seen them, the most unified I’ve ever seen them. Right? The most unified I’ve ever seen them. The American people are fed up with Democrat lies, hoaxes, and extremism. The Democrats’ outrageous conduct has created an angry majority that will vote many do-nothing Democrats out of office in 2020.
 Make no mistake. They are coming after the Republican party and me because I’m fighting for you. They don’t like it. This is different. They’ve never had anything like this. Well, they’ve never had an election like 2016 either, have they? They never have. They’ve never quite figured it out.
 And they know they can’t win, so let’s try and impeach him. How about that crazy representative, Al Green, right? “You know, we got to impeach him because we can’t beat him.” I don’t think so. Right? I don’t think so. Al Green, he’s another beauty. The Democrats, the media, and the deep state are desperate to stop us. And it’s not me, it’s us. It’s all of us. It’s 63 million, but it’s much more than 63 million. Much more. And right now, our numbers are higher than they’ve ever been before. They’ve never been this high. But they want to stop us because they know we are here, and that’s what we’re doing, and that’s what’s taking up so much time. We’re draining the swamp in Washington.
 Nothing terrifies Democrats more than the fact that all of their spying… Spying. They actually spied on my campaign. Can you believe it? I mean, you know, they try and say, “Well, we were actually just checking things out. Oh, that’s wonderful.”
 The lying, the falsifying over the past three years plus, before I ever even announced they were spying. I guess they knew we were going to win, right? But over that past more than three years is finally being exposed. And remember this, that truth is a force of nature. Desperate to conceal their misdeeds, the Democrats are now attacking us for calling out the grave corruption of the Bidens, just like they melted down when we pointed out crooked Hillary’s shocking and very many misdeeds.
 33,000 emails. 33,000 emails disappeared, but she said they only had to do with her working out at her daughter’s wedding. 33.
 Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up.
 She’s a beauty. How about last week? Did you hear? I don’t know who Tulsi Gabbard is, but I know one thing. She’s not an agent of Russia. And Jill Stein, she’s a greenie. That’s fine. We love the environment, everybody in this room. You know, right now we have the cleanest air and the cleanest water that we’ve ever had, and yet we’re number one in the world in energy, by far. We took over.
 But I don’t know Jill Stein. She ran last time. I don’t know, but I know she’s not an agent of Russia. And when Hillary made those statements, two statements, both of them, “They work for Russia, they’re agents of…” I said, “You know, when she made that statement about me three years ago, it took me two years to get out of that hoax statement.” She made it about them. Everybody laughed because of what we proved. But I’ll tell you what, these are very bad people. These are very dishonest people, and the media is worse than all of them.
 But think about the preposterous hoax the Democrats are now trying to peddle. I’ve just beaten, with no… Look, look, we didn’t have too much political experience. I did a good job, built lots of buildings all over the place, had great success in show business. Just did one show. It was called The Apprentice, and it was a big success. 14 seasons. And when I left, Crazy Arnold took over. It didn’t do too well. It was dead. It was dead from the first episode. I saw him, I said, “Oh, it’s terrible. What have they done to this beautiful show?” Arnold?
 But think of it. I’ve just beaten, with no political experience, the Clinton dynasty, the Bush dynasty, the President Barack Hussein Obama dynasty.
 And President Obama worked harder at defeating me than crooked Hillary Clinton did, right? He was all over the place. It’s the only time I’ve actually seen him work hard, when it came to trying to beat Trump. True. True. Remember he said… Remember he said, “He will not be president”? Well, that didn’t work out so well. And then they figured they could take us out a different way, very dishonesty, right, with the lying and the spying and the leaking. And we are kicking their ass. I’ll tell you.
 In the delusional Democrat fantasy, I’m now supposed to be afraid of someone called 1% Joe. I used to call him 1% because you could never get 1% in the primaries. Then he got brought out by Obama out of the trash heap, became vice president. But we’ve now named him Very Slow, Sleepy Joe. Very slow. He’s gotten slower and slower. I’m afraid if he gets a nomination, he’ll be so slow we’ll have the lowest-rated debates in history as opposed to the highest-rated debates in history against crooked Hillary. In fact, I don’t even think that Sleepy Joe will get it. But many people are running. So, you know, it’s so early. I don’t want to talk about their campaign.
 Oh, did you hear Beto? Beto? Did you hear Beto? Beto. Oh, that poor bastard. Well, poor, pathetic guy. He was pathetic. Remember the arms a-flailing? Remember that? You know, he ran against Ted Cruz. Ted Cruz won. He spent almost 100 million dollars, and Ted Cruz… And I helped Ted, and we campaigned together, and it was good. But I used to watch him. Then when he came onto the really big stage, this crazy stage, I noticed he was flailing with the arms, and he was standing on tables. He was standing on countertops. I said, “Does he ever stand on the floor and speak?” But he’s waving his arms and going crazy, and I said, “What the hell is he doing? What is he on?” And do you remember he made the statement that he was born for this? Anybody that says he was born for this, they’re in trouble.
 I used to have guys come into my office, “Sir, I’m the greatest salesman. Nobody can sell…” You know, the truth is anybody that says they’re a great salesman, usually they’re not a very good salesman. It’s true. It’s those sneaky ones in the back that don’t talk, that you don’t know about. They’re the ones. But Beto was nasty, and he said that he was born for it, like he was born from heaven. He came down. And if that’s the case, some really bad things happen, because he made a total fool out of himself.
 And he came out of Texas, the great state of Texas. He came out of Texas, a very hot political property, and he went back as cold as you can be. So he was a nasty guy, but he had a couple of policies that don’t work well in the state of Texas. Right? He was against religion. He was against you having a gun.
 And he was against oil. So you come from Texas, you don’t like religion, you don’t like oil, and you don’t have guns. I don’t know. That’s not a good combination in the state of Texas. That’s not good in Mississippi, either. I don’t know it’s that good anywhere. Nah, he went back home to Texas, and hopefully we won’t be hearing about him for a long time. It’s amazing how cold you could get so quickly, but he was a nasty guy. But in the twist…
 Oh, Alabama. Love Alabama. I love Alabama. I love Alabama. It’s a great place. But in the very twisted and corrupt world of Adam Schiff, after beating the entire political establishment, and that means Bush and that means Clinton and that means Obama, they have me supposedly saying to myself, “Well, let’s see. I got a guy named Sleepy Joe Biden. How do I beat him? How do I beat him? How do I beat this guy? He’s such a great.” Clinton, she was easy. Right? Obama was easy. The Bush dynasty was. But sleepy Joe, I’m worried about, right?
 So then I said to myself, “Gee, I guess there’s only one way. Let’s call up Ukraine for help.
 These people are sick. These people are sick. Now, these dishonest people will take the last little sliver and the first little sliver and they’ll put it, because they’re so damn dishonest, and they’ll just say-
 … “Let’s use Ukraine for help.” That’s what they’re going to say. And they won’t show the laughter, and they won’t show the sarcasm, and they won’t show the fun because they’re the most dishonorable people almost on earth. It’s a disgrace. But we say it anyway. And here’s the good news. The people get it.
 So they have a brand new president in Ukraine. Good guy, by the way. And I call a brand new person, a man I have no idea who he is, and I’m on a phone, right? And I know many people are on the phone because when you call the leaders of country, many people listen. And I’m on the phone, and they want me to say to this brand new president, just got there, called to congratulate him, “Please, could you help me please?” I don’t know who he is. I didn’t know his name until I looked down the card, I see. And he’s a nice guy, and hopefully he’s going to root out corruption because Ukraine has tremendous corruption problems. And one of the reasons I held up money, very important, corruption. But the other reason… Why isn’t Germany and France and UK and all of these European nations that are right there… Why aren’t they doing things that they’re supposed to do? Why is it always the United States?
 So I made this call, had this wonderful call, and the transcript proves it was, as I said, perfect. It was perfect. It wasn’t like almost… It was perfect. It was totally appropriate. I made it at the behest of people to say, “Could you call and say hello?” Now I’m an honest person, anyway. But do you think, when I’m making a call to a newly-elected president of a country, that I would say something improper when I know there are so many people listening on the line? Many people.
 … people listening on the line. I’ve many people, all of these people. You had the Secretary of State Pompeo, great guy. He’s listening. You had transcribers, fortunately. You had policy experts, junior aids, low-level staffers, probably [apprenti 00:00:20]. Whoever the hell wants to listen, they listen, and they have me making some kind of a deal with all these people. And remember, the new president of Ukraine is speaking to the United States of America, the president. I guarantee he’s got a lot of people listening, too. These people are sick.
 So corrupt politician, Shifty Adam Schiff, actually stood before Congress and stood before the American people and made up a conversation that he said I had with the Ukrainian president. Unfortunately … No, think of it. And many people saw that, and it was a terrible … He said terrible things. The president of Ukraine said it was a very good conversation, there was no pressure. His foreign minister said the same thing: no pressure. They must think we’re nuts, to be honest. It’s all a phony deal, this whole impeachment scam, to try to undermine the 2020 election and to de-legitimatize one of the greatest elections, maybe the greatest … I mean, let’s give George Washington credit, but everybody expected he was going to win, that we’ve ever had.
 So my phone call, which was totally perfect and appropriate, and if you want to read the transcript, you see how perfect it was, but they don’t quit. But what you should do is take a look at the behavior of Sleepy Joe. So I quote, “I said” … Let me act like him. I’ve got to speak really slow though, and … “I said, ‘You’re not getting a billion.’ I looked at them and I said, ‘I’m leaving in six hours. If the prosecutor isn’t fired, you’re not getting the money. You understand? You’re not getting the money.'” Then he goes, at the end … I didn’t know he had this kind of energy. He goes, “Well, son of a bitch, he got fired.”
 You know, in a certain way, I was impressed because, I mean, I didn’t think he had the energy, the brain power. It’s turned out he doesn’t. By the way, he’s dropping like a rock. When you’re at 1%, there’s always a reason. He should be there fairly soon. As you know, the Ukrainian prosecutor that Biden got fired after threatening to withhold, I think it was $1 billion or something in aid, was the prosecutor investigating his son’s company, that was paying Hunter Biden, a guy just got thrown out of the Navy … He was paying them millions of dollars, even though, working for an energy company, he had no experience with energy. He knew less about it than this young … How old are you?
 Six. This young, beautiful person in front of me.
 Six. And this young six-year-old is smarter, so I think I’d basically go with her. So what is it all about? It’s called a payoff, but you know what? The fake news, they apologize. I watched this horrible guy who gets lousy ratings, Anderson Cooper. Well, the hatred, I mean, between him and Fredo. You’ve got Fredo and … That’s Cuomo, Fredo. I call him Fredo, like from the movie.
 Now I watched Anderson Cooper and I watched him apologize for even asking the question to Biden. The good news is Biden didn’t know too much about what the hell he was talking about. Remember Biden said, “I don’t know these people. I don’t know them. I don’t know them.”
 He never spoke to his son about getting millions of dollars. No, he never spoke to him. Didn’t happen to speak to him. Think of this: we’re dealing with life, right? He never spoke to him. Unfortunately, the next day … In the world of the internet, in the world of smart people … That’s why I like Beto, he wasn’t smart, couldn’t handle it. I told my wife, I said, “See, it’s not so easy.”
 I told our great First Lady tonight, who people love. They love her. When Beto quit, he quit like a dog. When he quit I said, “See, people think this is easy. This isn’t easy,” but it just worked out that way.
 But Biden said, “I never met the people, never met the gentlemen.” Unfortunately, in about 10 seconds, a picture came out where they’re playing golf together, but he never met him. So now you’ll ask him, he’ll say, “No, we played around a golf. We were together for three hours. I never mentioned the fact that they’re paying my son millions.” Oh, no, no, no.
 But the press protection: watch this crazy Anderson Cooper. Third-rate. Lousy ratings. Third-rate person. But listen, CNN, the worst. I mean, the worst. The worst. Oh, the light just went off, see? Look. The light was on, they just turned. They don’t like it. It’s tough. You’re fake, CNN. No, it’s tough. I tried not to do that because I see their light on. When their light goes on, that means you’re live. No, that means you’re live. And every time, it’s tough. Look, in all fairness, they’re putting it on. It’s a broadcast. Very few people are [inaudible 00:37:37] … Well, they might be watching us. I guess they do watch us.
 But here’s the thing. And then you have the guy up there saying that they’re fake, that they’re no good, that they’re liars and cheaters, that they’re phoneys. It’s hard to be broadcasting that when you’re talking about the network that has you on, right? So, we understand. Their light’s off. And then, remember this: Anderson [inaudible 00:00:38:06]. He used to interview me. He was so nice. Prior to running for politics, he was so nice to me. It was like they were love fests, but I don’t want anything to do with him. They were love fests. What a thought. He’s weak. He’s a weak person, but they’re all weak. But let me just tell you something. We need honesty with our media.
 We need honesty, because the New York Times, the Washington Post … And by the way, I don’t know, you probably read it. We threw them out at the White House. We don’t show them anymore. If somebody wants to go and buy them; we threw them out. And they came into my office and then I got to get back to this guy. Where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter? We had a tee shirt made, “Where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter?”
 Poor Hunter. He then came out, he did the Morning Show. That was the last we’ve seen of Hunter. That wasn’t good. The morning of his father’s very bad debate, but it’s, where is Hunter? But before I say the final thing on Hunter and then we put him to rest for a while, we got rid of the Washington Post and the failing New York Times. We got rid of them, right? We don’t have them in the White House. I said, “No, you could … People can go out and buy them, but we don’t” …
 We used to have them stacked up, and I’d go in and I’d see a meeting with my people and they’re dealing with China, South Korea, or somebody. And I’d go into these offices; I’d see 10 or 15 of them packed up all over the place, the Washington Post, and the New York Times. I keep trying to figure out who’s worse. And one day it’s the Times, one day it’s the Post. It’s like top each other, they’re so bad. It’s so phony. In my opinion, it’s virtually corrupt. I’ve never seen it. You never have a good story. I mean, even when we got al-Baghdadi, the Washington Post had a story that he was like a great religious cleric. Where did that come from?
 The other thing, if Obama would have done it … because, look. This guy built ISIS. The caliphate, it was the size physically of Ohio, the state of Ohio, the great state of Ohio. That’s a big, lot of land. 7 million people, and they were the ones, the orange jumpsuits. I called a lot of the parents after we did this and I talked to them and they were … How can you be happy? But they were so thrilled that we got this animal. They were so thrilled. But you know what? And you know what? We don’t do it for … We do it because it’s right.
 That story was a massive story. That was the biggest, maybe the biggest, one of the biggest, ever. Bigger than anything. That story disappeared so fast. Done. And that’s okay. I didn’t do it for the story. I did it because it’s the right thing to do. But if I were a Democrat, they’d be talking about that story for weeks. With me, they don’t even want to … They actually played it down. And actually, and I’m happy about this, Conan the dog got more publicity than me. And I’m very happy with that. I’m very … Conan is incredible. And Conan’s coming to the White House in a few weeks.
 But it is true. Did you ever see a story disappear so fast? I mean, if Obama had that story, that thing would be going on for another seven months. They’d be talking about his bravery. Oh, so bravery. But again, 142 judges he gave us. Remember that. How can you be a great … They always say the most important thing a president can do is federal judges. We got two Supreme Courts. Great ones. Great judge. Gorsuch and Kavanaugh, great judges. By the way, did you ever see any human being treated worse than now-Justice Kavanaugh? Did anybody ever? Was any human being by these people, these horrible, horrible people that we have to deal with?
 Anyway, just to finish. So Hunter then goes to China. Now I’m dealing with China right now. They don’t like me too much. They dream about the day when somebody else … And would they like to have … How about this? You give this son, who has zero experience with investing, too, you give him $1.5 billion to invest, meaning he makes millions and millions of dollars, and the biggest guys on Wall Street can’t get it. He walks out with $1.5 billion. And then there are other places also, I understand. Folks, it’s disgraceful that the press doesn’t cover it for what it is. It’s a payoff. It’s a payoff.
 And how would you like to have Sleepy Joe, with the son getting all of this money from China, become president and take over the China deal? They are not liking me. They had the worst year that they’ve had in 57 years. Their supply chain is broken up like scrambled eggs and they want to make a deal because those tariffs have given us millions of dollars and billions now, billions and billions of dollars. We’re taking billions and billions of dollars, and you know what we’re doing with some of it? Just a small portion, but 100%, they’re taking care of … Our farmers got $16 billion last year and $12 billion the year before because they targeted our farmers, because they know the farmers love Trump and Trump loves the farmers. So they targeted them and they brought the $16 billion down to practically nothing. And they thought our farmers would say, “Oh, we don’t like Trump.” They did just the opposite. They said, “We know he’s doing the right thing because we’ve been ripped off for so many years.”
 But I said to him, I said to Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Purdue, a great guy; I said, “Sonny, how much did they spend buying our corn and soy beans and all of our agricultural product?”
 I said, “Good, I’ll make it up.”
 And we’re going to have a lot leftover. So we will have, pretty soon, over $100 billion in money paid into the United States Treasury by a country that never gave us 10 cents. They only took. They only took. So when I said to the farmers, “We’re going to send you $16 billion, and it’s already been sent. And it’s been split into $12 billion the year before.” I mean, think of that, $28 billion. I said, “Compliments of China.”
 And we had a lot left over. Not bad, right? Not bad. You think Obama would do that? I don’t think so. You think Hillary would do that? I don’t think so. You think Sleepy Joe would do that? I don’t think so. He wouldn’t know what you’re talking about.
 On Tuesday, the proud people of Mississippi will send Democrats a clear message. It’s very important for this reason, as well as the fact that you have a great gentleman in your midst. But you have to reject their extremism and their socialism and their corruption. They’re corrupt. Adam Schiff is a corrupt politician. You know when he made that phony speech where he made up a really horrible speech and said that I said it, I said, “Oh, I’m going to sue him.”
 They said, “Sir, I’m sorry. You can’t.”
 He’s got total immunity because he made it in Congress. Can you believe this? But here’s the good news. At least we have a forum, we have a place we can talk so everyone knows what’s going on. A bunch of phony people, but this is why we have to send a signal and why you have to make Tate Reeves your great, new Republican … Right? Republican governor, right?
 Hey, he’s a great guy, too. And all I know is he’s loved and respected by your current governor, because Phil is some piece of work. Phil is so confident. I wanted Phil to run for a certain office, then I wanted him to do something. I’ve tried to get him, but some guys are confident. Phil said, “No sir, I’ve been doing this all my life. I love the people.” He built the most beautiful African-American museum. Phil, he’s the greatest, but he built the most beautiful … But he’s got confidence. And he said, “No sir, I’d been doing it. I don’t really want to do that.” In other words, he said, “That’s enough.”
 Most people are so insecure, they keep going and going and going. It’s not good. I like Phil’s attitude better. But Phil is great, but I’m going to introduce Phil in a second. But Tate Reeves, who Phil endorses and views as a champion for your state and, really, a champion for Mississippi values. And Tate helped cut your taxes over 50 times, including the largest tax cut in Mississippi history. Tate is pro-worker, he’s pro-jobs, he’s pro-family, he’s pro-life. Tate is a true leader in the fight to protect the unborn. The other side is not. Tate Reeves will support our police, oppose sanctuary [inaudible 00:48:21] … Oh, we love our police, right? I love our police. We love our police.
 He’ll oppose sanctuary cities, which is just terrible. They’re terrible. And Tate will always defend your Second Amendment. So Tate’s running against a liberal Democrat named Jim Hood. Now all I know about Jim Hood is he fought very hard to elect crooked Hillary Clinton and Barack Hussein Obama. Isn’t that nice? He wanted Obama to win so badly and then he wanted Hillary to win. And that’s not the kind of guy we need here. Not in Mississippi. He’s supported by extreme leftists like Stacey Abrams, who, by the way went down to defeat in front of a terrific gentlemen from the great state of Georgia, Brian Kemp. And they came in with … Oh, they brought them all. They had President Obama, they had Michelle Obama, they had Oprah Winfrey. They came in, and all he had was Donald Trump, and we won. We won, fairly easily.
 But Stacey Abrams wants to give illegal aliens the right to vote. Do you believe this? I mean, some of these people, they want to give them education. They want to give them this. They want to give them free healthcare. They want to give these people, that come into our country illegally-
 … more advantages than our own citizens have, more advantages than our own military has. Jim Hood wants to raise your taxes. He supports taxpayer funding for abortion providers. He supports illegal immigration [inaudible 00:50:35] all benefits, and he opposed our travel ban, which is so important that we won in the United States Supreme Court to keep terrorists the hell out of our country.
 And Jim Hood went to the United Nations and opposed your right to self-defense. If you don’t want a far left Democrat running Mississippi … Wait a minute. How’s this guy? I can’t believe this is a competitive race. It’s embarrassing. I’m talking to Mississippi. I’m talking to Mississippi. I can’t believe it. I don’t think that he’s going to be the right guy. I think the guy that you want is Tate Reeves. He’s going to be fantastic. He will be a great, great governor. Tate, come on up. Tate.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Mississippi welcomes you, because Mississippi is Donald J. Trump country. We gave you almost 60% of the vote in 2016, and next year we’re going to do even better. And the reason is because President Trump is a strong leader. He is the right leader to defeat the radical liberals who have taken over the Democratic Party. Now these radical liberals have been trying to remove our president from office since the very day he was sworn in. They have disrespected him, and that means they have disrespected us. Jim Hood does not stand with our president. He stands with the radical liberals.
 When the radical liberals tried to stop the president on border security, Jim Hood stood with the liberals.
 When the choice was Donald J. Trump or Crooked Hillary, Jim Hood stood with Hillary Clinton. And today, with the election just days away, I’m standing with President Donald Trump, and Jim Hood is standing with the liberals. Now, Mississippi, it is time to choose. It is time to stand up and be counted. Are we going to stand with President Donald Trump? Are you going to stand with me on Tuesday? Let’s stand up to keep America great. Let’s stand up to elect a conservative that will be an ally to President Donald J. Trump. I need your prayers. I need your support and, most importantly, on Tuesday, I need your vote. Thank y’all.
 Thank you, Tate. Tuesday, go out and vote for Tate. He’ll never let you down. And don’t kid yourself. Your Second Amendment is under attack, but not with him. It’s under attack. So we’re also joined tonight by a man who is truly, and I’ve sort of said it a lot, but he’s been a great governor and he loves your state. He loves the people of this great state, Governor Phil Bryant. Where’s Phil? Come up, Phil. Come up.
 Oh, he’s central casting. Look at him. Come here, Phil.
 All right, I just want to say one more thing. Is this Trump country? This has been the greatest president of my lifetime. And let me tell you why. What we always wanted was a fighter. We said somebody should stand up to the Democrats and fight. Well, this is what fighting looks like. Let’s go make America great again.
 [inaudible 00:56:13] U.S.A, U.S.A, U.S.A, U.S.A, U.S.A, U.S.A.
 Thank you, Phil. Thank you. Thank you, my Phil. What a job. What a great job. You have to continue that whole thing going forward. So another man who’s a warrior is a friend of mine. Whenever there’s a problem, he’s there. He’s always there. He’ll be right at the front. He is tough. He is smart. He’s brilliant, actually. And he loves this state and he loves you people. Senator Roger Wicker. Roger.
 Thanks, Roger. Thank you, Roger. And somebody, I’ll call her up because, believe it or not, she’s running with me. She just ran. I said, “Cindy, you just ran. You just won.”
 She said, “No, I have to do it again.”
 She’s running in 2020. I thought she’d have six years. I said, “Cindy, it’s only like a year.” Cindy Hyde-Smith. She’s incredible. She’s tough and smart and strong, and she’s with us all the way. Cindy Hyde-Smith.
 Is this guy incredible or what? We have got a president we can be proud of. And let me tell you something: this Tuesday, Mississippi can send a message to the entire nation. We can let the liberal Democrats with their socialist agenda know it may be alive and well in the heart of Nancy Pelosi, but it is dead in Mississippi.
 We can let them know we don’t want open, illegal borders for drug smugglers to come through them. We can let them know that to kill an unborn baby is not a human right. It is a human life. This is a great crowd tonight. Next Tuesday, let’s go out and vote. Let’s support our governor, Tate Reeves. Let’s support these Mississippi Republican candidates. Go out and vote and let’s show the president how much we appreciate him, right now.
 Great job. Fantastic woman. So also with us, two terrific friends of mine that, like Roger and like Cindy Hyde-Smith, and like all of them … And Tate, he’s going to be right there. He’ll be right up there with us, all fighting together. Two incredible people: Trent Kelly, Michael Guest. Incredible people. And your next Lieutenant Governor, Delbert Hosemann. Your next Attorney General, Lynn Fitch. Your next Secretary of State, Michael Watson. Great people. Your next State Treasure, David McRae. State Auditor, Shad White. Agriculture Commissioner, Andy Gipson. Insurance Commissioner, Mike Chaney. And former governor, a man that nobody’s ever heard of in this room, I’m sure, but the truth is he’s a legend in politics and a great guy. He’s a great guy, Haley Barbour.
 Thank you, Haley. Great guy. So with the help of everyone here, we’re the hottest economy in the world, we’ve created over 6.7 million new jobs since the election. If I would have said during the campaign that I would create 6.7 million new jobs since the election, these people would have gone crazy. They would have said horrible things. They would have said it’s impossible. Unemployment has reached the lowest rate in over 51 years, soon to be historic. African-American unemployment just dropped to the lowest rate ever recorded; historic. Really unimportant to me, the African-American youth unemployment rate is the lowest ever recorded in the history of our country. We lifted 55,000 Mississippi residents out of poverty, 55,000. Hourly earnings [inaudible 01:02:03] …
 Hourly earnings are up 9% in Mississippi since the election. Under the previous two administrations, we lost 60,000 factories in our country. Under my administration, we’ve already added nearly 10,000 new factories, and many more are coming in as we speak. To get relief to working families, we passed massive tax cuts on average $2,000 to $2,500 per family, bringing almost $1 trillion back home to our shores. What’s happening? You couldn’t get the money. The big companies, they couldn’t get their money back both bureaucratically and from a tax standpoint. They brought back almost $1 trillion now because of us. All put to work.
 We slashed the largest number in history of job-killing regulations, and we ended the war on American energy. We are now the number one producer of energy by far anywhere in the world.
 For decades, you saw corrupt politicians take money from lobbyists to impose catastrophic trade deals. Mississippi lost 40% of all manufacturing jobs after the twin disasters of NAFTA and China’s entrance into the World Trade Organization. Two of the worst deals ever made by our country. 100,000 Mississippi jobs were wiped away just like that, and that’s awful, and a big price to pay for Washington’s disloyalty to the American worker. That’s what it was. It was disloyalty, stupidity, corruption, lots of reasons. But now you finally have a President who is loyal to you, and I am.
 I’m a fighter for your jobs, for your wages, your factories, your families, and your dignity. We’re stopping China from ripping us off. We’re stopping all of these other countries from taking advantage of the United States where we lose our money, we lose our wealth, we lose our jobs, we close our factories. That’s not happening anymore. It’s reversed. We were the sucker country for years and years, but we are not the sucker country anymore, and they all know it.
 We’re replacing NAFTA … and that was a disaster, NAFTA … with the brand new US, Mexico, Canada agreement if Nancy Pelosi will ever put it up to a vote, which is questionable. Nervous Nancy, she doesn’t want to give the people of our country a victory. She’s very busy doing other things. Having fun. The USMCA will be a massive victory for Mississippi’s farmers and also includes powerful protections for Mississippi auto workers, manufacturers, and everybody else. It’s a great agreement. About time we got rid of NAFTA. The do-nothing Democrats need to stop their madness and pass the USMCA right now.
 The last administration’s horrendous Trans-Pacific Partnership would have destroyed the US auto industry, but I proudly, first thing, withdrew from that job-killing calamity. Under our policies, Toyota has just announced a $170 million investment in Mississippi and 400 new jobs at its facility … did you ever hear of this place … Blue Springs. Blue Springs.
 Before my election, our leaders used the great American middle class as a piggy bank to fund their delusional global projects all over the world. We take care of other people. We take care of other countries, but we don’t take care of our own. They knowingly decimated American manufacturing to promote economic growth in foreign countries. They deployed our military to protect … think of this … immensely wealthy nations, subsidizing their welfare states with your money. I ask those wealthy nations now, I respectfully the other day said to the King of Saudi Arabia, “King, we’re going to help you, but you’ve got to pay.”
 And he was great. No, he was great. He was great. He said, “But nobody has ever asked before.” I said, “But I’m asking.” And billions of dollars will come in, and we’re protecting a great ally. We have a country that spends billions and billions of dollars in our country buying military and other things. But we said, “You’re very wealthy. You have to pay,” and they’re going to pay. And that’s true with many countries by the way. That’s true with many countries. They never respected us. They could never believe it. I said to one country … I have great respect for the Prime Minister of Japan. I said to Prime Minister, I said, “How did you get away with this for so long?” And he looked at me and he couldn’t really answer it because how the hell did this happen? We’re protecting 94 countries. Ask China, “How many countries are you protecting President Xi?” And they look at me like, “What a stupid question. We protect one. China.” You ask President Putin, “How many countries are you protecting President Putin?” And he looks and he goes, “Russia.” You ask other countries … we’re protecting at least 94. In fact, so many they can’t even tell me. I’ve been trying to get an answer for four months. So many they can’t even tell. It’s crazy, but it’s all beautiful the way it’s happening. A lot of good things are happening.
 But these same politicians poured precious American blood and treasure into the sands of the Middle East while allowing our cities to fall into disrepair and decay. Our failed ruling class believed it was their right to rule over you, to take your money, to take your jobs, to redistribute your wealth all over the globe, wherever they wanted it. But I don’t like that. I don’t like that. The great sellout has ended, and it ended the day I took the oath of office. That was quite a day.
 After years of building up foreign nations, we are finally building up our nation. We are finally putting America first. Our policy of never-ending war, regime change and nation-building is being replaced by the clear-eyed pursuit of American interests.
 It is the job of our military to protect our security, not to be the policemen of the world. Proving the wisdom of this approach, we recently secured a permanent ceasefire in Northern Syria without spilling one drop of American blood. Not one drop. Actually, I have to be honest. One soldier stepped on a nail. That’s true. I said, “Don’t tell the press that because they’ll say, but one soldier stepped in a nail.” I said, “How bad was it?” “It’s okay.” I said, “Don’t mention it please.” They always like to mention exactly what happened. You can take it a little bit low key. Stepped on a nail.
 Not a drop of blood. And we don’t have to defend the borders between Turkey and Syria. They’ve been fighting for 1000 years. But what we do is we did keep the oil, if you don’t mind. We kept the oil. We kept the oil. And we’ll distribute that oil, we’ll help out the Kurds, and we’ll help out other people. We’ll also help out ourselves if that’s okay.
 Past leaders, foolish military adventures turned far away nations into very, very dangerous war zones. Then they demanded that American citizens accept unlimited migration from those terror-afflicted nations and regions. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. We did not fight them over there only to invite them over here. We don’t want to do that.
 To protect our communities, my administration restricted migration from terror-prone nations and implemented the toughest ever vetting procedures. Toughest ever that we’ve ever had. No issue has ever been so horribly discarded by a party as that issue by the Democrats. They want open borders, which mean crime. They want sanctuary cities, which means crime and drugs and death. After bleeding the middle class dry, Democrats threw open our borders to the world, flooding our communities with poisonous drugs and criminal cartels. Republicans believe in strong borders and safe communities. We are now building a wall.
 Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall.
 Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall.
 We’re building it. And you think that was easy? The Democrats, they didn’t want that wall. I got money for everything, but when it came to the wall, not 10 cents. Not 10 cents. But we gave the military a lot of money and we took it from the military and we took it from here, we took it from there. Or we had to go to court and all of a sudden we start winning cases. We’re winning cases now. Winning a lot of cases.
 But the wall is going up rapidly. It’s going up rapidly. And this is a very serious wall. This is the exact everything they wanted. I went to the border patrol, incredible people and ICE. Incredible people, tough people. They love our country. And I said, “Give me the specifications for the wall.” They said, “Well sir, we’d like steel, but would also like concrete and would also like rebar.” I said, “Well, what do you want? Which one?” So I did all three because it’s a different form of cutting. You can cut through steel, but you can’t through the concrete and then you can’t through the hardened rebar. We got it all. “And we also need see-through, sir. Got to see who’s on the other side.” That makes sense, right? Not just concrete. It’s more expensive what we’re doing, but we’re giving and we’re building … we should have anywhere from 400 to almost 500 miles of wall built by the end of next year. It’s going up fast.
 In all the right areas. In all the right areas. That was a tough one. And the Army Corps of Engineers is building their hearts out. They’re great. Great people. We believe in keeping terrorists and criminals and drug dealers the hell out of our country. And thanks to our tireless efforts on the Southern Border, tough place, illegal crossings have dropped 60% since May, and we are faster than ever securing the Southern Border. And soon it will be, when the wall is completed, secure like it’s never been before. And I want to thank the country of Mexico. They right now have 27,000 soldiers on our borders. 27,000. You know what that is? And they are keeping people out. And I want to thank the President of Mexico. He’s an excellent person, great man. And we appreciate it.
 And the reason is that our Democrats won’t even approve things called loopholes. They’re loopholes. That’s a horrible name, right? That means it’s a loophole. That means you can come in illegally and lots of things. Catch and release. You catch them. Then you’ve got to release them. By law you’ve got to release them or they’ll arrest the border patrol agent if they don’t release. It’s crazy. But we could end this in 15 minutes, but they don’t want to do it. They don’t want to do it. They’re obstructionists. They’re colluders. And we can’t let it happen. That’s why you have to go with Tate Reeves. Tate’s going to send a big signal, by the way. It’s a big signal. It’s great for you. He’s going to be a great governor. It also sends a big signal to these radical left, crazy Democrats. It’s very important that Tate wins. Very important.
 We’re also fighting deadly sanctuary cities with the help of states like Mississippi, which has banned sanctuary cities because Phil Bryant said, “We’re not going to have them,” and Roger Wicker said, “We’re not going to have them. And Cindy said, “We’re not going to have them.” Democrats’ sanctuary cities forced the release of dangerous criminal aliens onto our streets. If you want a governor who will stand proudly with the heroes of ICE … and they are heroes, I wouldn’t want their job. MS-13, they walk right into those nests … they call them a nest … and they start swinging. You never saw anything like it. I’ll say, “You know what? Better you than me.” Let’s see who would do good. He’d do good. That guy. That guy would do good. Most of you wouldn’t do too good. No. I mean, these guys are tough guys and they love our country. Who would do it? They’re moving thousands of people from MS-13.
 These gangs are the worst people. These people, these are not human beings. You know, I said that once before and this crazy Nancy Pelosi said, “How dare you say they’re not human?” You ever see these people? And they slice people up with a knife because it’s more painful than using a gun. And then I have to defend myself when I say they’re animals. But you know what? I never changed. I didn’t say, “Oh, I’d like to apologize. I’d like to apologize. Crazy Nancy.”
 And you got to look at her district in San Francisco. She’s spending all her time on this crap or this impeachment stuff. Take a look at what’s happening to the great city, once, of San Francisco. It’s thousands and thousands of tents and drugs and needles and everything you can imagine floating in the streets in the best neighborhoods. Nancy Pelosi, go home and fix your district, Nancy. Go home and fix your district. Go home and fix your district.
 If you want a governor who will stand proudly with the heroes of ICE and border patrol, vote for Tate Reeves. Tuesday. Got to get out. You got to get out. Got to send the signal. Let it be a big victory too.
 The Democrat party has never been more extreme, you know that, than it is today. The Democrat healthcare agenda would obliterate Medicare. I will always protect Medicare for our seniors, and we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. Always. We’ll always take care of them.
 Virtually every Democrat also now supports late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb right up until the moment of birth. Well, the governor of Virginia executed a baby. Remember that whole thing. After birth, after birth. Some people never heard of it. He said the baby is born and then he starts talking to the mother. Nobody ever heard that. That is why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.
 Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream. Nobody has done more for the African American community than the Republican party. And we’re also the party of Abraham Lincoln. We can’t forget that. People forget. Abraham Lincoln. Honest Abe.
 To lift up distressed communities, we created opportunities zones. So incredible. So successful. Including 100 new opportunity zones right now in Mississippi where money is now flowing in to build and to fix. And Tim Scott, I give him so much credit from the great state of South Carolina.
 We pass VA Choice and VA Accountability on behalf of our great veterans. People said it couldn’t be done. VA Choice. Our veterans were waiting on line for days and weeks sometimes. Now they can go out, [inaudible 01:21:48] choices. They can go out, get a doctor, we pay the bill, and they don’t have to wait six weeks, four weeks, two weeks. We had people waiting in line. They weren’t very sick. By the time they saw the doctor, they were terminally ill. Now they go on and they go and they go outside and they find a doctor and we take care of our great veterans.
 The great rebuilding of the American Armed Forces has included massive investments in the military and facilities in Biloxi and Gulfport and Jackson and Starkville. And Roger has been fantastic. And Cindy Hyde-Smith has been fantastic. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 To protect America’s security, I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. It’s not the same country anymore. Nothing’s easy, but it’s not the same. And I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.
 For years you watch as your politicians apologize for America. Now you have a President who is standing up for America, and we are standing up for the people of Mississippi. The next step to victory begins on Tuesday right here in your great state. With your support we will show the corrupt Democrats that the American people are not ever going to back down from perhaps the greatest victory in political history.
 And you know today with the new stock market at an all-time high, it’s … I will tell you something … if we didn’t win this election, that stock market would be in one-half. It was heading in the wrong direction. It was going to fail. And if they ever did anything bad, if they ever do anything bad to us, if they ever succeed in their wildest dream, which will never let them happen, that stock market will crash like you’ve never seen a crash before. And you will not be happy with your 401ks like you’re happy right now because they don’t know what they’re doing. They don’t know what they’re doing.
 And I’d like to speak well, but the leadership, they have no clue. They’re just very vicious people. Actually, they’re sort of mentally violent people, but we’ve got it under control. It always helps when you didn’t do anything wrong. I always say, “How do you impeach a President who didn’t do anything wrong?” So we’re going to send a signal by sending a terrific new Republican governor to Jackson. On Tuesday, you’re going to get out and you’re going to vote, and you’re going to give up whatever you have to give up. You’re going to leave work maybe a little early or maybe get there a little late. Tell your boss I said it was okay. I will give you a pardon if I have to. I’ll give you a one-hour pardon. But with your help, we will lift millions more of our great citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity. Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration. And you have great congressmen here and I’ll tell you, I want to appreciate it, fellas. Warriors, you’re warriors. You are warriors. What was it? 196 for and nothing against, right? That doesn’t happen with Republicans. It doesn’t happen. I always complain. I always say the Democrats are lousy politicians. They have lousy policies. Open borders, sanctuary cities, but they have one thing. They stick together and they’re vicious. The Republicans have great policy. In many ways they’re better politicians, but they’re not as vicious.
 Thank you, darling. I appreciate it. They’re not as vicious, but they have a tendency to split apart. The Democrats don’t seem to have any Mitt Romneys. We do. We do. I don’t know. Maybe he’ll get better. Maybe he’ll get better. We’ll see. We’ll see what happens. Maybe he’ll get better. Just let it be fair, but they don’t have that.
 We will enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words, ‘Made in the USA.’ Made in America. We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America. Can you believe that? Within 10 years it will be over. When they told me that, I said, “That’s incredible.” We’re going to end the AIDS epidemic within 10 years. It’s funded. Nobody would have thought we could do that, but we’re doing it. We’ll have it ended in America in 10 years. The AIDS epidemic. Who would’ve thought?
 We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America. We support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way.
 We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. And we live by the words of our national motto and we always will. You’ll never see it disappear. In God We Trust. We stand on the shoulders of American Patriots who crossed the oceans, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, revolutionized industry, pioneered technology, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And today it’s greater than ever before.
 Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. That’s what we’re doing. That’s what happened in 2016. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting. And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We’ll get so tired of winning. I don’t know, Mississippi. You’re winning. You had the best year you’ve ever had. You have the best, Mississippi, the best year you’ve ever had in the history of our country. Mississippi. Your statistic. Mississippi, aren’t you getting tired of winning?
 I guess not. So Phil doesn’t come to me and say, “Sir, please, we’re willing too much. The people of Mississippi can’t take it anymore.” I don’t think you’ll ever have to make that trip. I don’t think he’s ever going to have to, and I don’t think Tate will ever have to make that trip. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.
 America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of Mississippi, the best is yet to come. Because together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
 Thank you, Mississippi. Thank you.
 To Senator Tillis, Lieutenant Governor Forest, Leader McCarthy, members of Congress, members of the amazing Trump family, and to the thousands of my fellow Republicans gathered here, it is great to be back in the Tar Heel State.
 And it’s especially great to be here with a friend of mine. A man who loves the state of North Carolina and has been fighting every day to keep the promises that he made to the people of this state, it is great to be here with the 45th President of the United States of America, President Donald Trump. But President Trump and I are here for one reason and one reason only, North Carolina and America need Dan Bishop in the United States Congress. He’s the right man. He’s the right Dan. He’s a principled conservative, and we need North Carolina nine to vote to send Dan Bishop to Washington D. C. in tomorrow’s special election. Let’s make it happen.
 You know we’re gathering here at a time that I know has been difficult for many families in North Carolina along the coast. President Trump and I were updated today by State and Federal officials through response and recovery and our promise to all of you and all of them is this, to the North Carolina Delegation, to future Congressman Greg Murphy and to all the families impacted by Hurricane Dorian, we are with you today, we will be with you tomorrow and we will be with you every day until you rebuild bigger and better then ever before. Okay.
 But, it is great to be with you all. You know what began four years ago has grown into a movement. A movement of everyday Americans from every walk of life. What began four years ago has now spanned all across the country and the truth is here in North Carolina you believe we could be strong again. You believe we could be prosperous again. You said yes to President Donald Trump in 2016 and North Carolina tomorrow we need you to say yes to Dan Bishop for the United States House of Representatives. And while you’re at it, after you send Dan Bishop to Washington, we need North Carolina to decide right here and right now that come 2020 we’re going to get President Donald Trump four more years in the White House.
 I mean think about all we’ve accomplished.
 Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
 I mean just think about all we accomplished in the last couple of years, especially when we had a Republican majority in both houses of the congress. I mean it’s truly amazing, with leadership like Senator Thom Tillis, Senator Richard Burr and your great Congressmen like Richard Hudson, David Rouzer, and the great Congressman Mark Meadows. I think there’s only one way you can describe the last two years. It’s been two and a half years of action. It’s been two and a half years of results. It’s been two and a half years of promises made and promises kept, but we’re just getting started North Carolina. That’s why we need Dan Bishop in Washington D.C.
 I mean, think about it. The President promised to rebuild our military, support all the men and women like those who serve at Fort Bragg with such distinction. And as I stand before you today President Trump has already signed the largest increase in our National Defense since the days of Ronald Reagan. We’re rebuilding our military. We’re doing it. This President promised to bring our veterans access to the real-time world class health care that you earned in the uniform of the United States and President Trump delivered. We reformed the VA and we’ve given health care choice to every veteran in America.
 And President Trump promised to secure our boarders. We’ve made historic investments in boarder security. Mexico is doing more today then ever before. Apprehensions on our southern boarder in the last 3 months are already down by 60% and we’ve already started to build that wall on the southern boarder of the United States.
 Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall!
 Oh, we’re building it! We’re building it.
 And President Trump promised to get this economy moving again. Right out of the gate, we cut more red tape in our first two years then any Presidency in American history. We fought for free and fair trade deals and this President signed the largest tax cuts and tax reform in American history. That’s promises made, promises kept. And the results, North Carolina, have been amazing.
 Since election day 2016, 6.3 million new jobs created, unemployment is at a 50 year low and there’s more American’s working today then ever before in American history. And the American dream is working for everybody. African American’s and Hispanic American unemployment is the lowest level ever recorded. The American dream’s working for every American.
 And this President, beyond security, beyond looking after our veterans, beyond getting this economy moving again, this President promised to appoint principled conservatives to our courts at every level. And to date President Trump has already confirmed more then 150 judges to our federal courts and they are all men and women who will uphold the God given liberties enshrined in our constitution. Like the freedom of religion, the freedom of speech, and the second amendment right to keep and bare arms.
 In one promise after another President Donald Trump delivered. We’ve made America great again, but to keep America great we need four more years of President Donald Trump and we need Dan Bishop in the United States congress.
 Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
 I mean think about it, four more years means more jobs. Four more years mean more judges. Four more years means more support for our troops. And it’s going to take at least four more years to drain that swamp.
 Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp!
 But I’m here because we need Dan Bishop, who’s going to partner with this President every step of the way. Dan Bishop supports lower taxes, more jobs, a secure boarder and Dan Bishop stands for the right to life.
 The other Dan, he supports Nancy Pelosi’s agenda…
 Of higher taxes, fewer jobs, open boarders and even sanctuary counties. And you know Dan McCready even opposed a bill to protect the lives of babies who survive abortion.
 On every issues, jobs, taxes, boarders, life… Dan McCready is wrong and Dan Bishop is right. That’s why President Trump and I need you to send the right Dan to Washington D.C. It’s a great honor to be with you tonight. Thank you for the warm welcome. It’s also a great privilege always, for me to have the opportunity to introduce a close friend of mine. Literally a man whose making America great again every day. You know, the President and I speak or spend time together every day and I’m here to tell you President Donald Trump is the real deal. He says what he means and he means what he says. I’ve watched this President get up every day and fight to keep the promises that he made to the people of North Carolina and to every American, but now it’s your turn.
 Tomorrow it’s your turn to fight for him, by sending a strong principled conservative whose going to work for North Carolina and work with this President to make America safer, to make America more prosperous than ever before. It’s your turn to send North Carolina and President Trump a true champion to the United States Congress. Dan Bishop belongs in Washington D.C. and with Dan Bishop in Congress, with renewed Republican majorities on Capitol Hill, with President Donald Trump in the White house and with God’s help, we’re going to keep on winning. North Carolina’s going to keep on prospering and this man will keep America great.
 So now it is my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce my friend and the 45th President of the United States of America, President Donald Trump.
 Thank you everybody. Thank you and Vice President Mike Pence, thank you very much. Incredible. And, hello to Fayetteville. Hello, Fayetteville. It’s great to be here in North Carolina’s ninth congressional district with the hardworking patriots who believe in faith, family, God and country. Thank you. Thank you.
 Tomorrow you’ll head to the polls to elect a congressman who always puts America first, Dan Bishop. I’ve just come from a meeting with North Carolina officials representing communities hit by Hurricane Dorian and I expressed the unwavering solidarity of the American people, we are behind you 100%. 100%. The prayers of our entire nation are with the citizens of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and everyone else that was in the storms path, and I will say I was called by the government of The Bahamas and we’re helping with The Bahamas. They were hit so hard. They were hit so hard. Who would believe it?
 We pledged the full support of the federal government through every step of the rebuilding process. And I will say, North Carolina in our country probably got hit the hardest. That was a little bit of a surprise, but I know one thing about North Carolina. You can take it and you’ll build it quickly and you’ll build it beautifully. And, you’ll be back sooner then anybody ever thought and it’ll be better then ever. Right? No doubt about it.
 I also want to give a special recognition to the many non-governmental organizations doing so much to help people recover from Dorian, in particular, Franklin Graham. He’s a wonderful guy. He’s got an organization, Samaritan’s Purse, based right here in North Carolina and the work that Franklin and his family and all of those that are with Franklin Graham we want to thank them. Special, great people. Great People. Thank you Franklin. Thank you. Incredible job. He does such a great job. All over, whenever there’s a problem you see Samaritan’s Purse and Franklin and his people. We love the people of this state and we will never ever leave your side. North Carolina will truly recover so fast. I know you people so well. Let’s not even talk about it. Let’s not even talk about it. We’re here tonight to discuss the extraordinary progress we’re making as a nation and how to ensure this amazing resurgence keeps on going and going strong.
 In just over two years, we’ve taken this big beautiful ship and it’s being turned around very quickly. Nobody thought this would happen. You know we won the greatest election, certainly one of them, but maybe the greatest, but we won… let’s say one of the greatest, this way I won’t be criticized. They’ll say, “You know, George Washington had a great election too.” The fake news right. The fake news.
 But, we won one of the greatest elections in history and because of that, and you would be in big trouble if we didn’t, I can tell you that. You’d be… Instead of going up we were heading in the wrong direction. We have the number one economy anywhere in the world. And every time I meet a foreign leader, almost every time, they say, “Congratulations on what you’ve done with the economy.” I said, “I didn’t do it. I just set a certain path. The people of the United States did it.” Number one anywhere in the world.
 And they tried to do the recession thing. You know, they tried the Russia thing. That didn’t work. They tried many other things. I always say, “The media and their partner, the Democrats.”
 I wouldn’t mind fighting the Democrats, but we really have to look at it as a two-some. It’s the media and the Democrats. It’s one and the same. We’re rebuilding our military, defending our sovereignty and reclaiming our dignity as a nation. America is winning again and America is respected again. They respect America.
 By the way, I have about 10 women in the front row and you come from North Carolina and they travel all over the place. Hold up your hands. These are great women. I see them so much, and I must say they have other things to do. They look rich as hell to me, I don’t know.
 How many is this? How many rallies have you come too?
 They can’t count. They said all of them except for two. That’s a lot of rallies and it all emanates from this area. That’s so great. Well, at least you won’t have to travel so far for this one, right? Thank you very much for being here. We really appreciate it. Well, we appreciate it. We appreciate it. Thank you. Really incredible people.
 But you know, we’ve created six million new jobs since election day and I couldn’t say that in my initial rallies because nobody would have believed it. Six million new jobs. More Americans are working today than ever before in the history of our country. Almost 160 million Americans, nobody would have thought that was possible. We wouldn’t have been able to say it actually.
 We’ve now had 13 straight months of wage gains of at least 3%, so the people that work so hard… You remember I used to say during the rallies before we won, people worked two jobs, three jobs and they made less money then they made 21 years before and now wages are going up, the economy is doing great and jobs have never been better.
 So importantly, more than 70 million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps. Nearly 600,000 Americans entered the labor force last month alone. Think of that. And the unemployment rate for African-Americans just reached another brand new, yesterday, all time low in the history of our country.
 How do you lose that debate? Remember I used to say, “Why do you have to lose?” Well, now you have the best unemployment numbers, employment and unemployment numbers, that you’ve ever had as African-Americans, as Asian-Americans, as Hispanic-Americans. The best numbers we’ve ever had, and by the way, African-American youth unemployment has also reached the lowest level ever recorded in history.
 And, the labor force participation rate for women is at the highest level now in 15 years, and soon will be 35 years, and soon, I promise, will probably end up being better than ever. I can tell you the unemployment numbers for women are the best they’ve been now in 72 years. So, I always say kiddingly, “I’m sorry I didn’t make it historic,” but you know what? It’s going to be historic very soon. It’ll be historic very soon.
 And, here in North Carolina, over 230,000 more people now have jobs and small business formation has skyrocketed by more than 25%. Amazing. But, the radical democrats want to dismantle, demolish, and destroy everything that you’ve gained, and they will do it, and it won’t take that long.
 And, that’s why we need Dan Bishop and Greg Murphy. We need them. We need them going down. We need them going down to congress and helping. But, they can do it. It’s also why we need four more years. It has to… See, it’s like a plant. We’ve changed things, right? Keep America Great. We’ve changed things, but it’s gotta grow. It’s gotta develop those roots. And, once it does, it’s going to be very hard for them to destroy what we’ve done. Very hard.
 And, that’s really why I consider this election… Look, we had a very, very special day in 2016. It was a very special day. Very special day. It was an incredible day, an incredible month, an incredible year, and I don’t know that you can ever compare anything to it. But, I can say this, 2020 is essentially just as important, because they’ll try and take it away. Whether it has to do with religion. Our evangelicals are here tonight, and they’re all over the place. And, what we’ve done for them, and for religion, is so important.
 You know, the other side, I don’t think they’re big believers… They’re not big believers in religion. That I can tell you. You listen to some of them. They’re trying, and they’re trying put out little statements. They’re not working too well. Little statements that are a little bit, sort of, not too good, huh? What is the word we want to use? Yeah, a little… Nah. Nah. They’re pushing a little hard, and it’s not working.
 To stop the far left, you must vote in tomorrow’s special election. So important. Or, get your votes in early. I think a lot of… Who voted early for Dan Bishop? Good. Well, that’s good, but the big thing is tomorrow. Tomorrow is the election, and you’ll get out. To protect your family, you must defeat open borders. And, you have Democrat named Dan McCready, and he wants open borders. He wants sanctuary cities. He’s not going to protect your Second Amendment. He’s doing nothing on your Sec…
 You know, North Carolina’s a very big Second Amendment state. And, Dan Bishop, Greg Murphy, these guys, they’re going to protect your Second Amendment. But, one of the biggest issues in this election is, in fact, sanctuary cities. McCready supports sanctuary city policies that force prisons and jails to release criminal aliens directly into your neighborhoods. Get out. Go ahead. Go into the neighborhood. Go into… What’s your neighborhood. Where do you… What? Rutherford County! Okay.
 So, how do you feel about having them released, hardened, horrible criminals into Rutherford County? I don’t think so. But, your whole state… Honestly… Can I be honest? It’s crazy what’s happening. This whole thing with sanctuary cities, and you go to California, which is so many sanctuary cities, they don’t know what’s happening out there. You have people that want to get ride of those sanctuary cities, they just aren’t able to do it with the people that get elected. A lot of illegal voting going on out there, by the way, a lot of illegal voting.
 In August, McCready said it was “the right call to set illegal alien criminals loose in the great state…” I’m using the words great state. He doesn’t. “… Of North Carolina.” With the support and encouragement of McCready, sanctuary jurisdictions in North Carolina have released thousands of dangerous criminal aliens into your communities, and you see it. You see it.
 The charges against these freed criminals includes sexual assault, robbery, drug crimes, kidnapping, and homicide. Murder. Why would you do it? Why would you do it? What is it? Explain it. Just recently, Mecklenburg County set free an illegal alien charged with first-degree rape and crimes against a child. Support for sanctuary cities is disloyalty to American citizens, and McCready wants sanctuary cities with all of their protections for people that are serious criminals.
 Tomorrow is your chance to send a clear message to the America-hating left, and it’s gotta be. And, by the way, we’re building that wall, and it’s going up very big. Very big.
 And, you think it’s easy to get money when you have the entire Democrat party… And, they control the House, and we want to change that. We want to flip the house. We’ll get so much. It’ll be amazing what we can do for our country. We don’t want dangerous criminal aliens roaming free in North Carolina. We want to take care of it. This state should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens.
 Our great Republican candidate, Dan Bishop, will fight with everything he has to stop sanctuary cities and defend the people of this great state. Dan, come on up. Dan Bishop, everyone. Get out and vote. Come on up, Dan.
 Hello, North Carolina! Hello, Fayetteville! Hello, 9th District of North Carolina! Mr. President, we’re not tired of winning. We want to keep on winning. And, tomorrow, Tuesday, September 10, 2019, we’re going to win the 9th District of North Carolina.
 We’ve all watched as the Democratic Party, the socialist Democrat Party, seeks the president’s destruction every day. We’ve seen a dishonest media serve as their handmaidens and their allies in that mission. We’ve watched as the greatest fighter ever to occupy the White House has pushed them all off.
 Mr. President, you don’t need… Mr. President, you don’t need North Carolina, the 9th District. We’ve got someone. All right. Got someone overheated over here. Give them some space.
 We need a doctor. A doctor in the house, please. A doctor, please. Doctor in the house. Thank you.
 Take your time, please. Take your time. We’ve got plenty of time. Thank you. Take your time. Thank you, Doctor. Take your time. People have been standing outside for two days to get in, so this happens. Thank you. Thank you, Doctor.
 Doing better? Good. That’s good. That’s good. That’s great. That’s really great. Thank you! Thank you, sir. Thank you. That’s really great. Thank you very much. I guess Dan’s speech wasn’t so good. What do you think? That’s great. Thank you very much.
 Great job. Thank you, Doctor. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, law enforcement. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, ladies and gentleman. I trust that person will be okay. Let’s all say a prayer for that person that they’re all right. Because, that’s what we do. We pray.
 And, I share your values. I’m not ashamed of your values. I’m going to defend your values in Washington DC. As this great fighter faces all those long odds, the socialist Democrats, the fake media, the last thing he needs is for the 9th District to send him another Nancy Pelosi clone. President Trump needs nobody else in Washington who supports sanctuary cities and counties here in North Carolina or anywhere else.
 What’s going to happen tomorrow, on Tuesday, September 10, is the 9th District is going to send a congressman with backbone, who can stand up to the smears and the lies of the lying, fake news media and support the president of the United States, as he keeps America great.
 And, what I need you to do, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, I need you to vote. I need you to vote. But, that’s not all. I need you to vote, but beyond that, take a lesson from President Donald J. Trump. Don’t rely on them to get our message out. Take out your phone. Go to votedanbishop.com. I’m going to repeat that. Go to votedanbishop.com, and right there at the top of that website, you’re going to see a video featuring the President of the United States telling you to vote for right Dan, not wrong Dan. And, right below that video, that little frame, you’re going to see a button. It’s three buttons to share that video. And, you don’t have to rely on that news media. You can use those buttons and send that out to all of your friends on Facebook, on Twitter, on email, so they’ll know that President Trump can have a fighter for the values of the 9th District in Washington DC.
 Tomorrow’s our chance. Let’s tell them. Let’s show them. Go out and vote for right Dan. Vote for Dan Bishop tomorrow, September 10. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President Trump.
 Thank you, Dan. That was a good job. That was a good job. He means it, too. He’s great. Go out and vote tomorrow for Dan Bishop, please. So, we’ve had great support over the last six months in particular from a man who happens to be your senator right now, and we need him to keep going, because he has been fantastic. And, I believe he’s here tonight. I just came in. The weather wasn’t so great to be traveling today, and they said, “Maybe we could skip North Carolina today, sir.” So, I said, “No, thank you.” I said, “No, thank you.” Can you imagine?
 And, by the way, I have to say, we have a big crowd in here, right? You haven’t seen outside. Thousands and thousands of people who couldn’t get in. And, when people wait two or three days to come in and especially these first rows, I just want to tell you we really thank you. Incredible.
 But, Thom Tillis has really worked with us over the last period of time. He’s recently introduced a bill to give American victims the right to sue sanctuary cities. That’s a big deal. And hold them accountable for the lives that they’ve shattered. But, to pass the bill, we need more Republicans. Tomorrow there is another crucial special election, and we have a fantastic guy running in that one, too, Republican Greg Murphy. It looks like he’s in good shape, but you’ve got to get it out.
 So, I want to introduce Thom Tillis, and I want to introduce Greg Murphy. I want to thank you both. Thank you. Thank you, Thom, and thank you, Greg.
 So, Greg Murphy is looking to, like Dan, cut your taxes, defend your Second Amendment, support our policies, really, really support our military and our veterans. We have rebuilt our military. Greg Murphy, come on up for a second here. Greg Murphy. Come up. Come up, Greg. Come on up, Greg. Come on up, Greg. Just for a second. Then, we’ll get back to business. We’ve got to do this, and I don’t know. He’s been a great champ Thank you, Greg. Come. Please.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Hello, Fayetteville. Hello, Fayetteville. It is a pleasure to be amongst people who believe in God, country, and family. Our Democrats have given up on God. They’ve pushed it away from our country. They want to give our country away, and they want to destroy the nuclear family. We have a president, a bold man, who has brought those three principles back to our faith and to our country. We need to come out to support him.
 So, I ask you, tomorrow, please… It was actually good for me to see that actually few of you have already voted, because every, single one of you needs to show up tomorrow and support Dan Bishop as your next congressman, or actually me, if I’ll be your next congressman. We are here to serve you. We are here to help our president, and we are here to keep America great. God bless you all.
 Good luck tomorrow, Greg. Get out there and vote for those two guys. They’re terrific. We’re thrilled to be joined tonight by many more terrific Republican leaders. A man who’s really been stepping up to the front. He defended Justice Kavanaugh when he was treated so badly. I’ve never seen anything like the treatment that Justice Kavanaugh received. And, everybody respects him, and everybody likes him. And, I like him, and we used to fight like hell, right?
 But, we don’t fight anymore. We like each other a lot, and he’s a special man. And, he’s become a special friend. Senator Lindsay Graham.
 Another man who is a fighter… I guess we’re all fighters. You have to be a fighter or you’re not going to be here very long. I can tell you that. We’ve got to fight them more than anybody else. But, a man who’s done an incredible job in Washington, took over a rough situation, and he’s become a real leader, and that’s Republican Leader, Kevin McCarthy. Kevin. Kevin’s working so hard for so many different people. He wants to see Dan and Greg win so badly. Thank you for being here. Appreciate it, Leader.
 Representative David Rouzer. David, thank you. David Rouzer. He’s done a fantastic job. Our lieutenant governor who is going to be, I think, a highly competitive candidate for a very important race, Dan Forest. Thank you, Dan. Thank you very much, Dan.
 We also have North Carolina Republican Party Chair, Michael Whatley. What a job you’ve done. And, we have a man from North Carolina who loves this state. He fights so hard. He doesn’t know what it is not to fight. You know who I’m talking about? They got it, Mark. You’re all screaming, “Mark Meadows.” That’s right. He’s great.
 So many. Jim Jordan, Andy Biggs, Gaetz, and… I just got so… By the way, Devin Nunez. Devin Nunez. How about Devin? He was out there when it wasn’t in vogue to be saying that Comey was a stone cold liar and leaker. But, he knew it all the time, Devin Nunez. But, Mark Meadows is pretty incredible, and do they love…
 … but Mark Meadows has been incredible, and do they love him in your state. Do they love Mark Meadows. Thank you Mark. Also a friend of mine who’s been with us from the beginning, he’s not a politician but he might as well be one. He loves us. He loves this party and he loves your state, lives here, Louis DeJoy. One of the most successful people. Thank you, Louis and your wife is… doing a great job Louis.
 And a very special thanks to my son, Don Junior and Kimberly. Great job. Did Don Junior give a good speech? I heard that. They all said, “He was on fire.” Well, he’s fighting. He loves this country. My son loves this country. My family loves this country, and two people, from your state, that the first lady, before she was first lady, she said, “You know, there are two people that are unbelievable. You’ve got to watch them.” I said, “I’m not interested. I’m too busy.” “No, no, no. You have to watch them. They’re so great, they’re so smart. They love the country, they love you.” Diamond and Silk. They are incredible. Incredible people. Thank you very much. Thank you, what a job, and they’re doing very well I have to tell you that.
 Our shared Republican agenda is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100% pro-American.
 And by the way, so is Doug Collins, and so John Ratcliffe. Thank you fellows. Thank you. Two incredible fighters also.
 For decades our leaders put global interest and special interest ahead of your interest. You know that better than anybody, and this state knows it better than anybody. They traded away your factories, sold your future, squandered your tax dollars, sacrificed your security, and bogged us down in one foreign debacle after another. But all of that is changed. We’re respected again. They’re all saying, “Oh, gee. I hope he doesn’t do this or that.” They’ve taken advantage of us for years, and I have to say sadly, in many cases it’s our allies that took the greatest advantage of this country.
 But now you finally have a president who understands that I’m not supposed to be the president of the world, I’m supposed to be the President of the United States of America.
 To bring back our jobs for other countries, we passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. We’ve cut a record number of job killing regulations. No president, no longer how long they serve, has gotten anywhere even close to what we’ve done with regulations, and that’s one of the reasons our economy is so good. And we have tremendous potential upward, and China wants to talk. They want to talk. China’s lost three million jobs, thousands of companies are leaving China, the supply chain is crumbling because they can’t pay the tariffs, and our country has taken over things that you would’ve never thought. As an example, hundreds of billions of dollars have been and are coming into our country in the form of tariffs, and China is eating the cost, which the fake news doesn’t want to tell you.
 And out of the tens of billions of dollars that we’ve taken in, because of the fact that our great American patriot farmers have been targeted by China, they’ve been targeted, because they know the farmer is like Trump. I love the farmers. So they targeted the farmers, and I said to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture, “Sonny, how much was it, last year and the year before? Tell me.” It was $12 billion and it was $16 billion, and out of the tariffs that we’ve taken in, we gave to our farmers for distribution, hopefully very good distribution, hopefully very even distribution, we’ve given them $28 billion so that they’re whole. So that they’re whole. Nobody would ever do that. Nobody would ever do that, I can tell you that right now, and our farmers know we have to fight.
 I see it all the time, where some of the networks that are crazy, they have a group of farmers, in some cases they have groups of women, they say, “What do you think of President Trump?” “We like him a lot. We’re with him all the way.” And they want to turn off the cameras. They go crazy, but with the farmers you know that. You ever see that? The 10 women. “What do you think of President Trump?” “We love him!” Boy would I like to put you on television, I’ll tell you right now, and they can’t turn off those cameras fast enough, but they say to the farmers, “You voted for President Trump, are you happy?” And ever one of them said, “He did things that no ones ever done before.” Who would think of getting 12 billion plus 16 million, $28 billion, because they’ve been targeted. That’s the amount
 I asked Sonny, I said Sonny, “What’s the amount they’ve took our of our farmers?” “It was 16 billion and the year before 12.” And said Sonny, “We got to make that up,” and we made that up. Who would do that? Nobody would do that. First of all, nobody else ever had tens of billions of dollars pouring in from China because it’s always been the other way around. China has taken advantage of our country for decades, decades. And I guarantee you one thing, none of these Democrats, whether it’s Pocahontas or Sleepy Joe, none of them would be able to do a thing about it, and nobody would ever think of helping the farmers who have been targeted by China.
 China made $500 billion over the last number of years, on a yearly basis, they steal our intellectual property. So many other things. So now it’s just different, and now it’s working the other way, and tariffs are a beautiful thing when you know how to use them, they’re a beautiful thing. And I want China to do well, and I hope they do well, but they’ve had now the worst year in 57 years. I wonder why? I wonder why? And hopefully it’ll all work out. We’ll see. We’re going to be talking next week. We’re talking now. They’re going to be coming to the United States in two or three weeks, and we’ll see what happens, but unless we’re going to make a good deal or a fair deal for our country, let’s face it, we can not go back to a situation. We’re giving hundreds of billions of dollars to China becomes standard fare. Not going to happen, we can’t do it, and we have many other countries also, but we’ll worry about them a little bit later.
 Plenty of others, they’ve taken advantage of our country like you wouldn’t believe, and I’ve been saying this for many years. I was saying this when I was a private citizen. They take our jobs, they make our product, they sell the product into our country with no tax, no nothing. So we end up with closed factories, no jobs, no taxes, no nothing, and these other countries gain. As an example, Mexico, I must say they’ve really helped us at the border. The Democrats will not doing anything about these horrible open loopholes, which would be so good. So we’re doing it a different way, and Mexico is now patrolling with 27,000 troops. They’ve never had two troops steward our border, and you saw the numbers today were down approximately 57%. But our country could fix it so easy if the Democrats would sit with me for 15 minutes, but they don’t want to do that because they want to have open borders.
 They want to have drugs pouring into our country. You have to have a wall and you have to stop it, and when you look at what’s happening with human trafficking, and it’s mostly women, they traffic in women and they pour through our borders. Well, every inch of wall that we put up is vital and we’re putting up miles and miles, and we intend by next year, at the end of the year, to have anywhere between 400 and 500 miles of wall built, and this is serious wall. This is the real deal. Serious wall.
 Build the wall! Build the wall! Build the wall! Build the wall!
 And I want to thank our new Secretary of Defense, Mark Esper, for the job he’s done and he views it really as a national security threat, and you have to. What can be much more threatening that people that want to pour across our borders, and we have the worst walls, we have the weakest walls in the history of any country? You can’t do anything to stop them. You have program, catch and release. You catch them and then you have to release them, and they’re suppose to come back to court in the next three, four, fix, six years, and nobody shows up, and Democrats don’t want to fix it. So we’re stopping them, so we don’t even have to worry about court.
 We ended the last administrations cruel war on American energy. The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. And for all of these crazy people, but they’re not so crazy, they know what they’re doing, that talk about Russia, Russia, Russia. Russia’s not too happy about that. Their primary source of income is oil and gas, and now we’re bigger than Russia, bigger than Saudi Arabia. We’re bigger than everybody, and we’re doing great. So they’re not exactly happy.
 The Russian Hoax, was a pure hoax, you saw that with Comey the other day. Yet every leading Democrat running for president pledges to ban the energy that drives our economy, and wage an under… If you look at what’s going on your way of life is under assault by these people. I mean, I go out and sometimes I’ll get these huge audiences, and I wish we could’ve gotten a large arena than this. We tried. I was even willing to stand out in the rain and get my hair soaking wet, but they said it was a little bit out of your district, and I said, “I don’t know if it looks good being out of your district.” But I was willing to do it, I would’ve taken it. I would have been very proud to have done it. It would’ve shown it’s my real hair at least. It wouldn’t be pretty, but it’s my hair. May not be great, but I will say it’s better than most of my friends who are the same age. A lot better. A lot!
 But we had a different location, as you all know, and we said, “Let’s do this one. It’s bigger.” And we put screens outside for all of the people. We have screens and loud speakers and everything. It’s really amazing what’s going on out there, but after years of building up there countries, we are finally building up our country, that’s the bottom line.
 The last administration, with Biden and Obama at the helm, they tried to ram through one of the worst trade deals that ever been negotiated, the Transpacific Partnership. You could’ve kissed many of your industries goodbye. TPP would’ve gutted the American auto industry. It would’ve been even worse than NAFTA, and we know how bad NAFTA was. All you have to do, is even to this day, look around at all those empty plants where people moved down and companies moved down to Mexico. Not under the USMCA. We got to get Nancy Pelosi to put it in for a vote, make it bipartisan. She’ll have tremendous Democrat support. The farmers want it, the unions want it, the manufacturers want it, and by the way, 600,000 manufacturing jobs in this country, remember? You would need a magic wand. You can’t do that anymore. Well, we did it, but we’ve got to get USMCA put up for a vote by the Democrats.
 But in my first week in office I proudly withdrew from that job destroying TPP catastrophe, and we’re replacing one of the worst trade deals ever made by any country. You can go back as far as you want, NAFTA, the disaster of NAFTA. So whatever you do, start talking to your people, we need a vote on the USMCA. That’s United States, Mexico, and Canada, and they’ve already voted. They want it and we want it, and it’s great for the farmers. It’s great for everybody.
 We’re also aggressively combating a problem that you have in North Carolina, problem that we have in almost all states, the opioid epidemic. Last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug overdose deaths in nearly 31 years. At the center of the American drug crisis is the border crisis. Criminal cartel smuggle vast quantities of lethal narcotics across our souther border, including heroin, meth, cocaine, and fentanyl. 100,000 people a year die from what comes across our souther border, and we can get the Democrats to help us in sealing it even tighter. We got to get them. We got to get them. We got to get them.
 So if you want to stop the drug smugglers, the human traffickers, the viscous MS13 gang members, and by the way thank you to ICE. These people go into those nests, we call them nets. These are vicious, vicious people. We got into the nests with our ICE people, and for them it’s another day at the office. There aren’t too many people in this room that want to do it for a living. Let me see. That guy would. Maybe him, maybe her, right? Maybe her. But it’s a rough job and they get so little praise for the job that they do. So dangerous. These are many killers in those gangs, and we’re taking them out of our country by the thousands, MS13.
 And as you know, Democrats even want to give free healthcare to illegal immigrants. As long as I’m your president I will never, ever let Democrats take away your healthcare, and give it away free to people that have entered our country illegally. We can’t do that. It’s a tremendous incentive to come in. Democrats also want to bring in unlimited numbers of foreign refugees from overseas, all at the expense of supporting their own communities. Republicans, no matter what you do, where you are, we want people to obey our laws. You want people that are going to help our country.
 The Democrat party has never been farther outside of the mainstream. Every major Democrat running for president supports a massive government takeover of healthcare that would raid Medicare, force private doctors out of medicine, and lead to the rationing of life saving treatments. And they want to take away your private healthcare, your private insurance. 180 million people will lose with what they want to do. It’s a disaster. It’s like, did you ever really feel where you don’t even have to treat people nicely? You don’t have any choice, you have to vote for me. I can leave right now. I can say, “North Carolina, I’ve had it with you. I’m leaving right now.” And you know what? You got to go out and vote. What are you going to do? Put one of these crazy people running our country again?
 But it’s never been so far left. I told a story the other day about a business man I saw, one of the biggest in the country. You probably know his name. He’s hated me for 20 years, and I’ve hated him also. Okay? Now they’re going to go out tomorrow, “Breaking news, Donald Trump hates people.” You’re sort of right about that. I never liked this guy, and I see him in the White House, and I say, “What are you doing here?” And he goes, “Mr. President.” See now he calls me Mr. President. He used to call me something else. “Mr. President, I’m fighting for your victory.” I said, “You got to be kidding.” He goes, “Honestly, you’re doing a great job, but also if this radical left gets in they’re going to take away everything, and they’re going to destroy our country.” And for the first time I like this guy.
 My administration is defending your right to choose the plan and the doctor that is best for you. Remember President Obama? 28 times, remember 28 times, they counted them and there’s much more than that I would imagine, that you can choose your plan, you can choose your doctor. It didn’t work out that way, did it? Obamacare, and we’re keeping Obamacare alive. We got rid of the individual mandate, the worst part of Obamacare. We’re keeping it and running it as well as it can, but the premiums are too high. The deductibles are through the roof. It’s ridiculous, and we’re coming up with Lindsey Graham and all of the folks, we’re coming up with a great healthcare plan that if we take back to the house. That’s why Dan and Greg, if we take back the House, if we keep the Senate, and maybe even increase it a little bit, wouldn’t be bad, and on the assumption we keep the presidency, you’re going to have great healthcare.
 Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
 Thank you. We almost had it. We had a man campaigning for eight years to knock out Obamacare, and when he voted it didn’t work out that way, did it? We had it, and we would have had it, but we’re going to end up actually with a better plan. Sometimes through adversity things work out better. We’re going to end up with a better plan, you watch.
 We’ll always protect patients with pre-existing conditions also. Always, yep, my word. Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in more than 51 years. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion. Ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb, right up to the moment of birth, and if you look at the governor of Virginia, he was even talking about essentially you would say an execution. He was talking after the baby is born, the doctor will talk to the mother and they’ll make the decision as to whether or not that baby lives. This is a radical Democrat idea. That’s why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, and socialism. They’re socialists. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and the American dream. Every day they’re making good on the motto, “Promise made, promises kept.” In fact, we are keeping even more promises by far than we made, or than we promised. So many more. So many more. So many more.
 You know what we did with respect to people that are very sick or terminally ill, right? Right to try it’s called. I love that name. Right to try. We have some of the greatest doctors in the world, labs in the world, hospitals in the world, and we have incredible medicine that’s prohibited from being used until it gets approval, and sometimes that approval can take many years. And I said, “Wait a minute, if a person is sick… ” And they’ve been trying to get this for 45 years. I said, “If a person is sick, and maybe terminally ill, why aren’t we letting them try this new technology?” And so many things are happening, and we did Right to Try. And it wasn’t easy, but I was helped by Lindsey and a lot of great people. A lot of great people. All of them helped. Mark helped so much. All of them help. Rick. We have had a tremendous success.
 We had so many people wanting to help, but it was complicated believe it not because the country didn’t want the liability. I said, “You know what you do? You draw up an agreement taking away liability.” They said, “That’s a good idea.” The insurance companies and the drug companies were very unsure. This has been going on for many years. I got it done. The results have been unbelievable. Right to Try. Things that we’ve never even talked about we’re getting done. Maybe one of the biggest things is within about a month, we’ll have close to 180 federal judges, including the public division judges. Including two great new Supreme Court Justices. Justice Neil Gorsuch, and Justice Brett Cavanaugh, who they put through hell.
 We passed something that they’ve wanted to do for half a century. We passed VA Choice. So when your great and honored veterans are waiting in line for three weeks, four weeks, five days, 10 days, two months, they go to a private doctor, we pay for the bill, and they get themselves taken care of, instead of dying, which was happening.
 And we also passed VA Accountability on behalf of our great veterans. That means when they treat our veterans, and they wouldn’t have done it in primetime I can tell you, but when they treat our sick and trouble veterans badly we can say, “You’re fired. Get the heck out.” It’s called VA Accountability. That’s another one we’ve been trying, and in all fairness the unions made it very tough. Civil service made it almost impossible. Everyone said, “You’re never going to get it done.” We got it done. We want to thank the Republican Senate. I want to thank some incredible people in the House of Representatives, and Kevin I want to thank you…
 … people in the House of Representatives. And Kevin, I want to thank you because that was a great job you did on that one. That was a great job, thank you, Kevin McCarthy. We’ve received record funding for the US military, 700 billion last year, 716 billion dollars this year, 738 billion dollars …
 And you know, know I’m a big believer in budgets but we have no choice. We had to rebuild our military with all that’s going on today with China, with Russia, with radical Islam, with everything that’s happening, we had to do something. And you know, budgets are fine, I love budgets and we will get to that, don’t worry about it.
 But we had to rebuild, our military was totally depleted, it was totally depleted. We have beautiful new F-35’s, F-18’s, new ships, new missiles, new rockets, we have new everything. I came back with Admiral Brown, the United States Coast Guard and some of the other folks, and they were saying that the new Coast Guard cutters …
 How good a job has the Coast Guard done during these hurricanes? And I said, “Admiral, how good are the new Coast Guard cutters?” He said, “They’re the finest in the world, sir.” And they had old broken equipment that they had to keep going on a shoestring. They have brand new Coast Guard cutters. We had to do it, we had to do it.
 There’s always time for the other but we had to do it. We’ve rebuilt our military, we’ve taken care of the great people that work in our military. We gave them a raise, a beautiful raise they were so entitled to. And I also got other NATO members to pay an additional 100 billion dollars over the last year and a half that they weren’t paying, they were delinquent.
 We’re supposed to protect them and they don’t pay, I say you can’t do that. You can’t do that, you got to pay, NATO. Now we’re finally making immensely wealthy countries pay the cost of their defense, we’re negotiating with a lot of them. Think of it, we have these immensely wealthy countries and they’re paying for a fraction of our cost to defend them.
 How did that happen? And do you know what the biggest excuse is when I go to them and I’ll say, “King, you got to pay,” or, “Mr. Prime minister, you got to pay,” or, “Mr. President, you’ve got to pay,” you know? It’s costing us billions of dollars to protect these wealthy. You know what their biggest thing is?
 Because I can’t understand how we did this for so many years, decades, decades … “You have been defending all of …” I won’t mention names because I don’t want to embarrass anybody. I don’t want to, forget it, some of the wealthiest countries in the world. And when I say, “King, President, Prime Minister, Queen,” no matter what I say, you know what they say?
 “But nobody’s ever asked us to do that before,” that’s the only excuse. Because I say to them, “Why would we do this? Why are we defending you? You’re immensely wealthy, you compete with us on trade.” We have lousy trade deals that we are renegotiating many of them and ultimately all of them. “Why are we protecting you, Mr. President?”
 “Well, I don’t know, I don’t know.” But you know what their answer is? “Because you’ve always done it.” That’s not a great answer. So we’re taking in billions and billions but I’ve got 100 billion dollars and the Secretary General of NATO, Stoltenberg, is my biggest fan. He said, “Until President Trump, you had to see the data across the spending was going like this.”
 And ours was going like this, we were defending many countries that treat us very badly on trade and very unfairly. We were defending them and now it’s changing, around 100 billion dollars, they’re not happy. And then I read where Obama is more popular in Germany than Trump. He’s got to be, I’m making people pay their bills, he’s got to be.
 You know, the day that I’m more popular than him, I’m not doing my job. The big story, they like him more in Europe than they like Trump. I think they should. 100 billion dollars more they’re paying. To protect America’s security, I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran Nuclear Deal. We paid them 150 billion dollars for that piece of work.
 I withdrew it and we put sanctions all over the place and they’re a much different country and let’s see what happens. But I can tell you they’d like to get back to business because they’re not doing very well. When I came into office, Iran was a real terror. 18 sites of confliction, they were behind every one of them in the Middle East.
 And who knows, could have been elsewhere. And I said we’re not going to do it, 150 billion dollars President Obama paid and 1.8 billion in cash. Whoever saw a million dollars piled up as a promotion? In hundred dollar bills, it’s a lot. Now take a million dollars and make it 1.8 billion dollars in cash. I’m actually more impressed with that number than 150 billion dollars, you want to know the truth.
 1.8 billion dollars in cash and we got taken to the cleaners so I terminated the deal. And I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem which every president said they would do. And I also approved for Israel the Golan Heights and if you really think about it, I said to people, “What’s more important, the Golan Heights or the capital of Jerusalem by moving our embassy there?”
 He said, “Neither, sir. What you’ve done in Iran is more important than both of them.” I said, “You know, I guess you’re right when you think about it.” So we’ve done a good job, all of us together, as a movement we’ve done a great job for Israel. For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for america and we are standing up for the people of North Carolina.
 You must never forget that the 2020 election is about one thing thing, you. It’s true, it’s not about me, it’s about you. It’s about your family, your future and the fate of your country. That’s what we did in 2016, they came from the hills and valleys, they came from the cities, they came from all over the place and people were saying, these fakers back there, they were saying, “What the hell is happening?”
 But I knew it was going to happen because we go out and we see these rallies, the likes of which no one has ever seen before ever, ever, ever in politics, ever in politics. A vote for any Democrat in 2020 and a vote for any Democrat tomorrow in North Carolina is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and a destruction of the American dream.
 We are entering this campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda and the only positive vision for the people of North Carolina. And I’ve said it and I say it loudly and proudly, I don’t believe there’s been any president or any administration that has done more in 2.5 years then we have as a group in America. When you add it all up, nobody’s done what we have.
 Our first task is a giant victory. Tomorrow, right here in the great state of North Carolina with your support, tomorrow we take the first steps to firing Speaker Pelosi and winning back the House in 2020. We need everybody to get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors and get out and vote for Dan Bishop and get out and vote for Greg Murphy, you got to get out tomorrow and vote.
 Together we will lift millions more from our horrible, horrible situations that have developed over the years. Look at what’s happening to Democrat-run cities, every single one of them. We are going to lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. With your help, we will elect for Republicans to Congress to create a safe, modern, fair and lawful system of immigration.
 We will enact great deals that result in more products probably stamped with the four beautiful words made in the USA, made in the USA. You want made in America, I don’t care, what do you like better? Made in america or made in the USA? Go ahead. Wait, ready? You want made in America then made in the USA. What do you like better, made in America, made in the USA? Okay, I think we know that answer.
 So in 2016 we had in my opinion the greatest phrase in the history of politics, make America great again. Now we are within moments hopefully of having, despite what you heard a few weeks ago, where we were heading. And they’re going, “Please, please let there be a recession, please.” They’re willing to give up their results because they think it will help them win the election. They’re not going to win the election.
 Don’t forget, we are doing this and still fighting the unfairness of China and other countries on trade. What happens when that gets fixed and other things get fixed? We’re setting new records and we’re fighting trade deals and we’re fighting military deals that are unfair to our country. Think what happens when it all gets fixed, We have ourselves a country that’s going to be so strong. But we had a phrase, make what? Make America great again, the best.
 I think it was maybe the greatest, 2016, but we’ve done a lot and now they’re very close to setting a new … I think it’s the 118th time that we will have set a new record with the stock market, right? Many, many times, many, many times. I can’t be certain that many but it’s a lot, okay? I always have to preface it because there’ll be headlines, Trump didn’t tell the truth. So I’ve always got to be extremely cautious.
 We had the greatest phrase of all time and even the fake news media would agree, make America great again, MAGA country, make America great again. Now we still have a year and a half, little bit less, can you believe it? Can you believe it? I stood in the White House with the first lady that first night and I said, “Wow, look at this. That’s the bedroom of Abraham Lincoln,” you have to see this. It’s so perfectly done, it’s so the way it was.
 That’s the bedroom of the great Abe Lincoln. “Honey, can you believe this?” That was the first night and now in less than a year and a half, the first term will be over. Think of that. I announced today that we got the soccer World Cup, that’s a big thing, who else was going to do it? But we’ve got a problem, it’s in 2026 [inaudible 01:38:17]. We announced it in front of the press and in 2026.
 And I said, “Well, wait a minute, under the normal rules I will be out in 2024 so we may have to go for an extra term.” Oh, they’re going crazy. Tomorrow, you will see headlines, Trump wants an extra term, I told you, I told you. He wants an extra term, ladies and gentlemen. We told you, we told you he’s a dictator, we told you. No, no, I’m only kidding, I’m only kidding.
 But we actually have the World Cup, it’s the biggest sporting event in the world and we got it. And that’s where we’re working it also with Mexico and Canada to give them some of the games. We’ve got a great relationship with the World Cup, it’s a big deal. Bob Kraft helped me with the New England Patriots people. Tom Brady had a pretty good game the other night, right? They have a good a coach, whether you like it or not, and I know you, North Carolina.
 But how good a coach, in all fairness here, is Coach Belichick? How good is he? I know you want to be cool but he’s pretty good. We have to appreciate genius, we all like genius. But we are going to achieve new breakthroughs in science, medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending within 10 years the AIDS epidemic in America. That’s shocking to hear that but we can do it, we’re going to do it, definitely.
 Incredible, the strides that we have made. We will defeat the Democrats to drive up the cost of houses, cars, healthcare and education by liberating Americans from their analysts’ push for a job killing, soul crushing Washington regulations. As an example, we’re trying to get the car companies, going to give them a little bit of extra energy and they will be able to build a car that consumers can buy which will be better than the car they make today.
 And you’ll save 3,500 dollars, think of that. It will be safer, it will be better, you can save 3,500 dollars, it will be less costly. And we’re going to try to get that done. And then they were forcing you to buy light bulbs that cost a fortune, so I signed something a couple days ago that gives you the right to continue to use the incandescent light bulbs, I don’t know about you, much less expensive.
 I don’t know about you but … I don’t know, I’m not a vain person. And I know I have real vain people, especially these incredibly ladies in the front, but I look better under an incandescent light than these [inaudible 01:40:45] lights that are beaming down over us. But you know, somebody told me that as you know, they’re much more expensive bulbs than for what you save.
 But they said that if the bulb break, it’s considered almost like the waste site. It’s very big, the bulbs, the new bulbs, they’re very dangerous with all of the gases. And I said, “What’s the point?” Well, then he said, “Well, I’m saying if we continue that production, they can buy whatever they want to buy but it can really save a tremendous amount of money and even have a light that’s better.”
 And there is a big danger, in fact they have labels, don’t break this bulb. What do you do, you’re going to throw it away? I promise I won’t break it, all the new ones. So you can hopefully buy the new ones but you can buy the old ones too and you can save a lot of money and you could even look better. We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms.
 Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one America, we’ll be one united nation. We’ll support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement, thank you, law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way like you.
 We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the words of our national motto, in God we trust, it’ll stay there. We stand on the shoulders of American patriots who crossed the ocean, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered science, won two world wars wars, defeated fascism and communism, put a man on the moon and built the most exceptional country in the history of the world.
 We are great Americans and the future belongs to us. The future belongs to you. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting and I’d like to fight a little less with these people but they just don’t stop. They just keep coming at you in waves. They are unfortunately not the best people. And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning, we’re going to keep on winning.
 We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before, we may have right now the greatest economy in the history of our nation. And ladies and gentlemen of North Carolina, the best is yet to come. Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again, we will. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, North Carolina. Thank you.
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
 Wow, thank you. Thank you, New Mexico. Thank you. We love being with you. We love being with you. Incredible people, incredible people. Thank you very much. And I’m thrilled to be here in Albuquerque with thousands of hard-working, freedom-loving American patriots. Thank you. Incredible.
 We’re all united by the same love of our great country. And by the way, our country is doing great. You see it. The same devotion to family and the same profound faith that America is blessed by, the eternal grace of Almighty God.
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. [ crosstalk 00:04:49].
 Good night to that person. Tomorrow they’ll say, “Massive protest.” No, one person just going home to mommy a little bit sooner. Good night. But we’re bound by these convictions. We will campaign for every vote, and we will win the great state of New Mexico in 2020. And by the way, you have thousands and thousands of people outside who can’t get in. So we love you, we love you, we appreciate it. We try to get the biggest arena we can get, and they’re never big enough, frankly. So there’s something going on. And I always say, 2016, I don’t know if there’ll ever be another 2016.
 But right now it’s like a great tree or a great plant, you plant it and it has to take hold. We have to win 2020. We’re doing so well. We have to win 2020. And every day, and you know as well as I do, we’re battling against the corrupt establishment of the past, and we’re achieving historic victories for the American people. We’re winning again. We’re winning again, and we’re winning big. We’re winning big.
 Crucially for your state, we have ended the last administration’s war on American energy. And since my election, natural gas productions, big story today, in New Mexico has increased by 40%, 4-0. And that means great wages, and it means jobs. And that’s why you’re breaking every single record in your state’s book. Crude oil production in New Mexico has more than doubled, and going up a lot higher very quickly. And your state’s energy revenues are up by nearly two-thirds. Think of that. Two-thirds. And that’s in a short period of time. Give me a little bit more time, okay?
 The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. And this means more jobs, higher wages, and American energy independence, which is what we have.
 A few years ago, if we had a problem like you saw two days ago in the Middle East, we would’ve been in a panic. Although, not if I were your president. We never panic. We don’t want to panic. But a few years ago, they would have been in a panic. Today we got a lot of oil, we got a lot of gas. We got a lot of oil and gas.
 We don’t have to send too many boats over there. Did you notice the other day, they were saying, “We don’t see too many American ships anymore.” You know why? Because we don’t need … We’re independent, as independent as we want. And we are now a net exporter of energy. Revenues from energy production provide up to 25% of your state’s budget and going much higher in the very near future. And they’ve generated nearly a billion-dollar budget surplus in New Mexico. Thank you very much, president Trump. Thank you.
 Now, under the Green New Deal, that all goes away. That all goes away. It all goes away. You can forget it. No more cows, no more airplanes, no more trips. A single car. Make it electric. Single car. You’re not allowed to travel more than 162 miles. They’ll call us “the hermit nation.” We’ll never leave our house. No, it’s crazy. But that’s okay. I don’t want to bring it up because I don’t want to do it too early. Maybe they’ll change, and I don’t want them to change.
 But think of it for you, and for Texas, and for so many other places, they want to get rid of your energy. I mean, explain that one.
 Explain that. Yet, every major Democrat running for president, they want to abolish all production of oil and natural gas. In other words, the Democrats want to completely annihilate New Mexico’s economy. The Democrats want us to be subservient to foreign producers. They want us to be at the mercy of rogue regimes. That’s not happening anymore. It’s been a long time. It’s been a long time. It’s not happening anymore. But Democrats will never get the chance because New Mexico will never give them that chance.
 [ crosstalk 00:11:37]. USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
 Under this administration, America is working again. America is winning again. And America is respected again, like it hasn’t been for a long time. And I can tell you because I meet so many of the leaders, and their presidents, and their kings, and their queens, and their prime ministers, and their everything, dictators every once in a while. Every once in a while, you get an a rogue dictator. And I’ll tell you, they always start off, today I had the Crown Prince of Bahrain, and they come in and they say, “Sir, I’d like to congratulate you on what you’ve done with the economy of the United States. It’s a model for the entire world.” They all say it.
 And earlier today … Do we have any baseball fans? Right? Right? You know what I’m going to say. But earlier today in the White House, I had the honor of awarding the Presidential Medal of Freedom, that’s the highest civilian award, to someone who truly embodies the American dream, baseball legend, the greatest, by the way, the greatest relief pitcher of all time, you look at those records, Mariano Rivera. He was something. The Yankees won a lot of World Series because of Mariano. Great guy. We gave him the medal. Done so much for charity. A fantastic man, fantastic family. It was a beautiful day at the White House, so it was good.
 My administration is fighting to empower all Americans to reach their dreams and achieve their potential. We have created six million new jobs since election day. The fake news would never have allowed us to say that during the campaign, even as a projection. Unemployment recently reached its lowest rate in over 50 years. More than seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps. Nearly 600,000 Americans came into the labor force last month alone. Think of that.
 Wages in your state, New Mexico, are growing at a rate of much more than 3% a year, which is unheard of 20 years ago. And I used to say during the campaign, you go back, it’s hard to believe, I’m here almost three years … Can you believe how time is flying? Can you believe it? I don’t know about it me, but you look all much better than you did three years ago. You’re wealthier. And even with the Me Too movement, we can’t say this, but I’ll say it anyway, you’re better looking, including the men, including the men. Now you’re all looking good.
 Since my election, the number of new business applications for New Mexico has increased by almost 30%, more than any state in the United States. Think of that. More than any state in the United States.
 So essentially, that’s saying you’re in a certain category, which is a very important category, you’re doing better than any state in the United States. How do I lose New Mexico? Explain that one, right? How do we lose that one? And yet, for whatever reason, it’s been quite a while since a Republican won this state. But we’re going to win this state. And I think we’re going to win this state easy. You had to see the people all the way in from the airport. That was a long drive by the way, 35 minutes. That was a long drive. But all the way in, we had people, and they were waving. And I didn’t see any negative hand gesture, right? No, I think we’re going to do great here. And we’re here for a number of reasons, but we’re here because we really think we’re going to turn this state and make it a Republican state. Yesterday marked the beginning of the Hispanic Heritage Month. Who is Hispanic here? Latinos for Trump. Thank you. Incredible people. But we have much to celebrate. Unbelievable when you think, the unemployment for Hispanic-Americans is right now at the lowest level ever recorded in the history of our country. Hispanic-American poverty reached a brand new all-time low in history. And after years of stagnation that you know very well, wages for Hispanic-Americans are rising really fast, up nearly 8% since my election. Those are unheard of numbers. They’re unheard of. And median income, think of that, median income for Hispanic-Americans surpassed $50,000 for the first time ever. That’s your median. That’s not bad. That means you’re wealthy and you’re getting wealthier fast. And I just want to tell you it’s an honor.
 But when I’m on the debate stage debating one of these far left radical Democrats, whoever it may be, and they start telling you what they’re going to do for you, and you say, “But we have the best numbers, every category, that we’ve ever had.” Hispanic-Americans … excuse me, New Mexico as a whole, we have the best numbers. African-Americans, the best numbers that we’ve ever had in the history of our country. Asian-Americans, the best numbers that we’ve ever had in history. Women, the best numbers that we’ve had in 71 years. We’re working night and day to deliver a future of limitless opportunity for our nation’s Hispanic-American citizens, including millions and millions of extraordinary Mexican-Americans who enrich our society, strengthen our country, serve in our military, and contribute immensely to our shared American family. And I want to just tell you that Mexico is doing a great job for us on the border, and I want to thank the president of Mexico.
 [crosstalk 00:20:06]. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall.
 You know, it’s very interesting, I hear everybody screaming, well, you know we’re building the wall, and it’s going up, and it’s going up fast. And if you think that’s easy with the Democrats who control the House, we have to take it back, but if you think it’s easy … But we’re building a lot of wall. We’ll have almost 500 miles of wall built by the end the next year, and it’s making a big difference. 500 miles. But you know we won a big case two months ago in the Supreme Court that allowed us to do what we’re doing. This has been … I’ll tell you what. Ready? Another president would have given up a long time ago. We don’t give up. So we’re building the wall, the Army Corps of Engineers, we’re doing a beautiful job. It’s a great, it’s a great structure. It’s a great structure. You’re going to have to really want to get over that wall, to do it.
 But it was very interesting because, not too long ago, I saw where the Hispanic-American, the Hispanics, were up with me in a poll, 17%. And everyone said, “How is that? How is that? How is that? 17%. Up by 17%. I won’t even tell you what the final number was because they won’t believe it, but you’re going to see what the final number … But you know why? Because the Hispanic-Americans, they understand, they don’t want criminals coming across the border. They don’t want people taking their jobs. They want to have that security, and they want the wall. They want the wall.
 And we have a man in the audience who is, I think, the best dressed man in this entire place, including me, right here. Look at him. Come here. Look at him. Look at this guy. And he’s been to a couple of rallies too, haven’t you? Huh? We have some people, a group of people the other day, you know, we had a victory in North Carolina that was unbelievable. Two of them. One of them, it was going to be very, very close.
 Here’s another one of my friends. Thank you. I like that beautiful red tie you’re wearing. But we had a victory, two victories, North Carolina, where one was 17 points down three weeks ago, we got involved, we started sending out lots of different social media messages, we did a couple of little robo calls, but the big thing, we did a speech the night before. The turnout was beyond belief. And instead of being down by 17 points, he easily won the election 4,000 or 5,000 votes.
 Dan, thank you, Dan. Thank you, Dan Bishop.
 And Greg Murphy was up a couple of points, and he ended up winning, I don’t know, I’d ask the media, but they won’t give me how many … What did he get? Do you know? Like 20, 21? He won by a lot. He won by a lot. I’d asked them, but we’re not going to get a straight answer.
 They were not happy. They were not happy. I’ll tell you, Tuesday night, the fake news was not happy. They had their studios all built. CNN had their A- list talent. They don’t have A-list talent, but they had the best they could have. And they were all set. This was going to be the end of Trump, because this man was going to lose. But he turned out to be tough and smart. And in all fairness, I helped a lot too. And toward the end of the night, they started dismantling that studio. Probably it would have been there for four weeks. This is the end. But we had two great victories, congressional victories, on Tuesday night. And it was something. The one gentleman won by a number that nobody thought even possible, so much. And the other won a race that he was way, way, way back. In fact, I shouldn’t tell you this, but my geniuses, my people, some of those people standing right there, right there, some of them right there, they said, “Sir, don’t get involved in that race, sir. You can’t come back from 17 points, sir. It’s too much.” I said, “But you know, I really like the guy. I think he’s great. Let’s give it a shot.” They say, “Sir, if you lose, they will never, ever … It’ll be much worse.” I said, “Let me tell you, I know them very well. Whether I help him or don’t help him, it’s going to be the same. It’s going to be a disaster. So let’s help him.” And we campaigned, and we worked hard, right? They said, “Don’t do it, sir. Don’t do it. Please don’t do it, sir. It’ll be very embarrassing.” I said, “No, I don’t mind being embarrassed. I don’t mind being embarrassed.”
 We’re also very proud that unemployment among Native Americans has reached the lowest rate in nearly two decades. And we’re building an amazing future for citizens of every background, race, religion, color, and creed. And that’s what we have. That’s what we have. Race, religion, color, and creed.
 But the radical left Democrats want to demolish everything that we’ve gained. They want to raise your taxes. They want to bury you in regulation. They want to take away your health insurance, 180 million Americans. They want to erase American history, crush religious liberty, indoctrinate our students with left-wing ideology. And left-wing Democrats want to confiscate your guns and eliminate your God-given right to self-defense. You know that. As your president, I will never allow them to take away your liberty, your dignity, and your social security. And I will never, ever allow them to take away your sacred right to keep and bear arms.
 The left tries to threaten, bully, intimidate Americans into submission. They use Democrat prosecutors and phony congressional committees whenever they can. They’ll do whatever they can to demean you, to libel you. They try to blacklist, coerce, cancel, or destroy anyone who gets in their way. Look at what they’re doing today to Justice Kavanaugh. Look at what they’re doing. Did you see the New York Times? Did you see what they’re doing? Did you see what Democrats, they’re calling for his resignation. They’re calling for his impeachment. And the woman involved said she didn’t know anything. But they still, so the New York Times had to put out a major apology, and they had to change their story. The woman said, “I don’t remember that.” Can you believe? And they still want him to be impeached.
 And I just put out a statement. And he’s a great man, by the way, a great talent. A great brilliant man, Brett Kavanaugh. and I just put out a statement on social media that said, I don’t think they’ll do it, but they should, for the good of the nation, “I call for the resignation of everybody at the New York Times involved in the Kavanaugh smear story.” And while you’re at it, the Russian witch-hunt hoax, which is just as phony a story.
 They’ve taken, the old gray lady, do you know the New York Times, for years, the old gray lady, so prestigious, they’ve taken the old great lady and broken her down, destroyed her virtue, and ruined her reputation. She can never recover, and will never return to greatness under current management. The Times is dead. Long live The New York Times. Long lived The New York Times. And I do want it to live, but they have to be, they have to change their ways. Think of it, they wrote a story about somebody that said she doesn’t remember this. Can you even believe it? And yet, all of these radical left crazies are in judiciary committee and all of these committees that are set up to hurt the country.
 With all that we have going, with Saudi Arabia, with Iran, with China trade deal, with Russia, with North Korea, with all that we have going, look at the cards that we’ve been dealt, lucky we won the election in 2016, believe me. With all that we have going, they say, “Let’s impeach Justice Kavanaugh,” one of the smartest, most brilliant students, top at Yale, incredible life, incredible family. “Let’s impeach him.” It’s a made-up story.
 “Let’s impeach President Trump.” Think of that. The Muller Report came out. Think of this. This crazy Mueller Report comes out, 18 Trump haters, liberal Democrats, some worked for Hillary Clinton, they found nothing. No, think of it. After two years, they found nothing. They spent $40 million. There’s not a person in the room that I couldn’t find something on with that. They spent, think of it, they found nothing. No collusion, no obstruction, no nothing. To stop the far left’s campaign of destruction, you must vote Republican. And you’re going to get the chance very soon.
 We’re joined tonight by many terrific Republican leaders, and somebody that’s done an incredible job, she ran Michigan for me. And as you know, for the presidential races, Michigan hadn’t been won in decades, and she kept saying, “Could you come back, sir?” I didn’t know who she was. I said, “Who the heck is the woman in Michigan that keeps asking?” She said, “Sir, if you keep coming back, you’re going to win Michigan.” Hasn’t been won in decades. And I won Michigan. Remember that great, great night? November. That great, great night. “Donald Trump has won the great state of Michigan.” And they were going crazy on television. They were going, that was not a good night-
 Going crazy on television. They were going, that was not a good night for certain people. Remember the couple of people that were crying? I guess they don’t like a strong military. They don’t like cutting regulations. They don’t like low taxes. They don’t like Right to Try, you know Right to Try. All these things we’ve done. For the Vets, we got choice. We got choice for the Vets. Choice. Everybody said it was impossible. We’ve rebuilt our military. I told this story for the first time today. A general came into my office in my first few weeks, you remember? It was a little dangerous out there. President Obama left us with a few beauties, right? And I said to this general, “You better be prepared, because this is looking like it could really be conflict.” And he looked at me and he goes, “Sir, we have very little ammunition.” I said, “Say it again.” And I want to tell you the words, very little, he didn’t use because it was less than that.
 And I said, “I never want to see a president in a position like that, where we may have conflict, and a general looks at him and said, ‘We have very little/ no ammunition.'” I never want a president of the United States to be in that position. And since then, three years, $700 billion we’ve spent, then $716 billion. And now, $738 billion. And our military is by far the greatest in the world. There’s nobody that even comes close.
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
 So anyway, no president should ever be put in that position. And by the way, no president should ever have to go through what I’ve gone through either. That should never happen. What happened is a disgrace to our country. No president should ever have to go through it. And I’ll tell you what, 99% of them would never have been able to take it. They wouldn’t have been able to take it. But we won the great state of Michigan, and now we’re doing really well, because we’ve moved a lot of car companies. I tell Japan, sorry, big deficits with all these countries, we’re changing it, but you’ve got to get car companies. We’re building car companies now in Michigan. They’re not going to be leaving for lots of other countries, including China, including Mexico. They’re going to stay home, and they’re going to pay you a lot of money, and everybody’s going to be happy. But Michigan’s doing great. And Ronna McDaniel was the Republican Party chair of Michigan. So when we won the election, I said, “Let’s get the woman from Michigan to run the RNC.” And she has done an incredible job. Thank you Ronna.
 A great gentleman who loves the Republican Party, co-chairman, Tommy Hicks. Tommy, what a job. New Mexico Republican party chairman. Steve Pearce. My friend and a really talented guy, he just gets the hell knocked out of him all the time. Brad Parscale. What a job he’s doing, Brad. Great job, Brad. Great job. And another great friend of mine, somebody that was on CNN, and they didn’t like him because he was too positive on Trump. Can you believe it? He happens to be Hispanic. He happens to be Hispanic, but I’ve never quite figured it out, because he looks more like a wasp than I do. So I haven’t figured that one out. But I’ll tell you what. There is nobody that loves his country more or Hispanic more than Steve Cortez, Steve. Thank you Steve. Nobody loves the Hispanics more. Who do you like more, the country or the Hispanics? He says the country. I don’t know. I may have to go for the Hispanics to be honest. We got a lot of Hispanics. We love our Hispanics. Get out and vote.
 You know, just before the last election, the Cubans from Miami where we got a tremendous percentage of the vote, close to 90%. they gave me the Bay of Pigs award. Can you imagine, right? The Bay of Pigs award. And the Venezuelans and the Cubans are all for Trump, I will tell you that. They’re all for Trump. They like what we’re doing. With the help of, and Steve, I want to thank you very much by the way, and you were incredible on CNN, and now you’ll get a real job. Okay? Steve, that audience wasn’t big enough for you. Their ratings aren’t good. With the help of everyone here tonight, we’re taking power out of Washington and giving it back to the great people of our country, and to the people of New Mexico. We’ve cut a record number of job-killing regulations, saving the average American household $3,000. We passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. What that means is a typical family of four in New Mexico making $75,000 has seen their tax bill reduced by more than $2,000.
 And it’s one of the reasons that as the world is not doing great, you look at Europe, and you look at Asia, and China’s not doing too well. I must be honest with you, worst year in 57 years, I’d say that’s not good. But I hope they still like me. And we’ve taken in tens of billions of dollars worth of tariffs, and we’ve given those tariffs, and by the way, China’s eating the tariffs, they’re devaluing their currency, the prices are very similar. They’re eating the tariffs. And out of the tens of billions we gave our great farmers, because they were targeted by China, because China knows, very smart, that the farmers love Trump, and Trump loves the farmers. I said to our Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, I said, “Sonny, how much did the farmers get hit by China targeting them and pulling back and doing all sorts of things?” He said, “$16 billion.” I said, “That’s okay. We’ll take $16 billion out of a much, much, much larger number. We’re going to give it to the farmers, so that they’re even.” And I tell you, the farmers do love Trump, they do love Trump.
 And to keep New Mexico’s farms, ranches, and small businesses in the family, we eliminated the unfair estate tax or death tax, so that you can now give your farm or your ranch to your children. Now, if you don’t like your children, don’t do it. But when it’s your time to kick the bucket, you worked hard. You have great kids, you love your kids, they’re taking care of you. You really love them. It’s a great thing. If you don’t love them, don’t even listen to the last line, because it won’t matter. Don’t leave it to them. If they’re not good, leave it to charity. Leave it to something else. Don’t get it to them. I know a guy who can’t stand his children, they’re horrible, horrible human beings. They’re a little older now, but they’re horrible human beings. He wants to leave his wealth. I said, “Why would you leave them? They don’t even like you.” But on the assumption that you love your children, you’ll be able to use small farms and your ranches and things. You’ll be able to leave them to your children. Your children won’t have to go out and borrow a fortune to pay tax. They won’t be losing it to the banks five years later. We got rid of it. That’s a big deal. Thank you. Thank you. Our shared Republican agenda is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100% pro-American. For many decades, our leaders put global interests and special interests ahead of your interests. You know that, in New Mexico, you know exactly what I’m talking about. People came in, they took your jobs, they had no border, they had no border control. Look at what’s going on now, how we’re doing. I mean, honestly, I mentioned the president of Mexico. We have today 27,000 Mexican soldiers on the border protecting our country. And I’ll take it. Because our laws are so bad, they’re so pathetic. And the Democrats could change these laws. They could change them so quickly. We could change them all in less than an hour. We could, whether it’s asylum, whether it’s any of the laws, we have so many of them that are so bad. How they got that, it took years and years to end up.
 But we have the Mexican soldiers out there. You see them, and they’re stopping people. The numbers are plummeting down. So I just want to thank all of the representatives of Mexico. Amazing. Well, we’ve got to get rid of the loopholes. You know, the word is loopholes, and the Democrats could do it fast. But in the meantime, we’re doing really well. And as the wall goes up, it becomes less and less of a problem, because as the wall gets up, people aren’t getting through. I mean you got to be a a world class pole vaulter, or a world class Mount Everest type climber. There’s not too many around like that. It’s really doing the trick. The failed liberal establishment in Washington squandered your tax dollars, shipped away your jobs, sacrificed your sovereignty, and bogged us down in one foreign war, or debacle, call it whatever you want after another.
 And that’s changing also, you see what’s happening, and when these rich countries think we’re going to pay for their military every year, billions and billions and billions, and they’re rich, and they take our business and we’re supposed to, on top of everything else, I could tell you stories, but I’m going to save them for the campaign. Because to be honest, this is a little earlier than the campaign. Wait until this campaign starts, you know, like I was telling Brad and I was telling a few of the folks, one thing I don’t want to do, Michael back there, Michael, hello. What a job he’s done. But I’m telling them I don’t want to do this too early. I don’t want to do it. You know the Pocahontas thing, I did that, it was before its time. Right? It was before it’s time. Too early. 1,024. That means I have more Indian blood than she does, and I have none, unfortunately. I’d like to say I have a lot. Got to get me another 4%. maybe another 10%. but I was early with her, and frankly, oh it’s coming back, don’t worry about her. But those days are over under this administration. We are finally putting America first. Putting it first.
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
 We’re reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that ravished our industries and devastated communities all across our land. You see the factories, empty buildings, empty hulks. Some have been demolished, some have been reconverted into senior citizen housing and housing. But all those jobs are gone, and we’re bringing them back. They’re coming back like almost never before. Probably, I can say they’re coming back like never before. People are coming back now, because they want to be where the action is. And this is the country where they have the security, and where they do have the action. In my first week in office, I proudly withdrew from the last administration’s job-destroying… and this was a catastrophe. You know, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, TPP, this would have destroyed the automobile business in our country. Now New Mexico, you know that you were totally devastated by another disaster known as NAFTA. Your state lost 33% of its manufacturing jobs after NAFTA was signed. This was one of the great catastrophes. And now we’re replacing NAFTA with the brand new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement, USMCA. Think of the song YMCA. YMCA. Think of the song. USMCA, that’s US-Mexico-Canada Agreement. And it’s drawing strong Bipartisan support from all across your state, and all across the country. It’s amazing. I want to just, yeah. the Dona Ana County Board of Commissioners, all Democrats just unanimously endorsed the USMCA, and urged Congress to pass it immediately. Thank you very much commissioners. All Democrats. Hopefully they’ll put it up for a vote. Nancy Pelosi, they put it up for vote. It’s going to be very popular. The Republicans love it, and the Democrats love it, and frankly, labor loves it. Unions love it. Farmers love, love, love it, and everybody wants it. Your farmers, your ranchers, everybody wants it. It’s an incredible agreement. And Mexico’s already passed it, and Canada’s ready to pass it, soon as we do. See, they don’t maybe trust us, that’s why. They say, “Why aren’t you passing it now?” They say, “Oh, we’ll pass it.” They’re going to pass it as soon as we do. Past leaders invited China to freely loot and pillage the United States economy.
 China’s been taking out from 300 billion to $500 billion a year. Billion, not million. Billion. Think of what $500 billion is. We’ve rebuilt China, but now it’s a different ball game. Somebody had to do something with China. President Obama should have done it. Presidents Bush should have done it. President Clinton should have done it. They all should have done it. Frankly, they all should have done a lot of things that we’re doing right now. So if you look at it, nobody did it, so I’m doing it, and that’s what’s going to happen. We’re doing well. So now we’re taking in billions and billions of dollars from China. When in the past, we never got 10 cents. We never got money. We never got anything.
 You know what we got? Unemployment and losses. And some cheap pencils. More than we needed. You could do with one less pencil. Following decades of outsourcing and offshoring, our jobs and factories are coming back home where they belong. If foreign companies do not want to pay our tariffs, there is one very simple solution. Come and make your product in America. Come and make your product in New Mexico. And by the way, I’m just seeing this great group of people, this spirit, is there any place in the world that’s more fun or more exciting than a Trump rally? Really? Is there anything? When you think about it, it’s not about fun. It’s about achievement. Because what we’ve achieved in the last almost three years is unparalleled. There’s never been an administration that in the first two and a half years has done what we’ve been able to do or achieve. In a few short weeks, we’ll be up to 180, sounds impossible, federal judges including court of appeals judges. Because President Obama did us a great favor when I came in, I said, “I assume I have no judges to appoint.” No sir, you have 138 judges. 138? Didn’t put them up, couldn’t get them approved. I don’t know what happened, but we started off with 138, now we’re up to 180. I just signed my 150th federal judge, and court of appeals judge, and we already have two great Supreme Court justices, Gorsuch, and Kavanaugh. Great, great men. So think of that. You know, you come in, and I’ve always heard the most important thing a president does, I disagree with this by the way, but that’s okay. I disagree with a lot of things. Because I think the most important thing is our military, and protecting our country, right? But have you listened to the so-called Washington elite, now why are they elite? We do better than they do, we’re smarter than them. We make more money, we have better houses, we have better everything, and then they say the elite. That means you’re the super elite. I’ve always take offense when somebody said, “President Trump is tired of listening to the elite.” I said, “No, no, I’m more elite than them.” Right? I think so. I mean, if we go by the old standards, better houses, better schools, made much more money, lived better, had everything going, and then I decide to run for president. And I’ll be honest, while we have to put up with these people, and others are, it’s incredible. But it’s the greatest single decision I’ve ever made, because our country is turning around so rapidly. I could not be happier, despite what they put us all through. Could not be happier. After years of building up other countries, we’re finally building up our country. Isn’t that nice? It’s time to finally take care of our own. And we’re all so aggressively combating the opioid epidemic, which is horrible. And as a result of our nonstop efforts, and billions and billions of dollars invested, last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug overdose deaths, and it was a very big decline in nearly three decades. 30 years.
 And at the center of America’s drug crisis, this is where the Hispanics know it better than anybody. People said, “Oh, the Hispanics won’t like a wall.” I said, “I think they’re going to love it.” They won’t like border security. I think they going to love it. You know why? Because you understand it better than other people, but at the whole center of this crisis is the drugs that are pouring in, and you understand that when other people don’t understand it. The border crisis, every day dangerous criminal cartels smuggle vast quantities of lethal narcotics across your Southern border, including heroin, meth, cocaine, and fentanyl, and we’re stopping them now. You see the kind of numbers, we’re getting millions and millions and millions of dollars worth. We’ve had some shipments where it could kill half of the country, some of the fentanyl and some of the bad, really bad stuff. If it were distributed, it could actually, has the power to kill half of the country. This is like a warlike situation. That’s why you’re liking Trump, because you’re not going to let that happen.
 If you want to stop the drug smugglers and the human traffickers, how about the human traffic and they traffic really for the most part in women, that’s what they traffic in, it’s women. They’re not trafficking in men. They capture women, and they bring them across the open borders, and they don’t go through ports of entry, where you have guards standing there with guns and rifles and everything else. They go out into the desert areas, and they hang a left, or they hang a right and they come in, but now when you have a wall, they can’t do that. Right? They can’t do that. And so many of these Democrats that are against the wall, it’s common sense? Look, you know what I saw the other day? Where the Democrats are having their convention, their national convention, they just gave out a tremendous contract. You know what it’s for? They’re building a big wall around the building, they’re building a big wall. A massive wall. We should tell them, open borders. Let anybody come in. And a few years ago, almost every one of these, they’re on tape. That’s the problem with politics.
 Three years ago, they could say, look, I saw Senator Schumer, I saw Nancy… I saw all of them. They said, “No, we need a wall. We must have a wall.” President Obama, “We must have a wall. We must stop people from coming into our country illegally. We have to stop it. We need a wall.” Now, a few years later, they don’t want a wall. You know why? Because anything I want, they want to do the opposite. And that’s okay. That’s the only reason. But if you want to stop the drug smugglers, human traffickers and vicious MS-3 gang members, which we’re taking out every year by the thousands, and getting them the hell out of our country, because of ICE. And if you want to stop all these people from threatening our communities and poisoning our youth, you know it’s poisoning our youth. That’s what it is, it’s nothing other than that, it’s very simple. They’re poisoning our youth. You have only one choice. You must elect Republicans. And to be honest with you, you’ve got to elect President Trump. We need four more years. President Trump.
 Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
 How about these phony Democrats? They started with Russia, Russia, Russia. That turned out to be be a fraud. That turned out to be a fraud. Then they went to race. Do you believe that one? Race. I’m the least racist person in this room. Then they went to recession, there’s going to be a recession. Oh please, let there be a recession, please. Because we have a better chance of defeating him if there’s a recession. And unfortunately, the stock market’s only a few points from its all time high, which we’ve broken on, I think it’s well over a hundred times. We broke the all time record. And now they have a new one. And I’m enriching myself. Let me tell you, by doing this and taking this particular job, which I love, it will cost me billions and billions of dollars, but if somebody from the Middle East that I never saw before, comes in and stays in one of my hotels for an evening, and pays $439, emoluments.
 Nobody ever heard the word emolument before. Emolument, nobody ever heard that word, emolument. He’s enriching himself. If somebody buys a tank of gas in Scotland, from an airport that I don’t own, and they happen to go to a hotel, he’s enriching himself, like 20 people, I’m going to lose billions of dollars, and that’s okay. I expected to do that when I did it. I didn’t know what would happen if I lost. Can you imagine? Supposing I lost, and we would have had the same basic rhetoric. I mean, winning was great. Supposing, you know, I’m doing all the things. I’m telling you all the same sort of things. Supposing I didn’t make it. I’d have to go around. I would’ve lost and lost billions, then I would have been really unhappy.
 But I’ll tell you what, I expected that when I did this, in terms of opportunity, in terms of certain places, they can never do as well when you have this kind of rhetoric, they can never do. So I’ll lose billions of dollars, always expected. They say, I enrich myself because somebody is going to stay at my hotel. It doesn’t work that way folks. And these are very, very dishonest people, and they know it. So they’ve given up on every other hoax, but it doesn’t work that way. You know it too. You get it. The democrat agenda of open borders places vast burdens on your communities, and your schools, and your hospitals, and public safety all at the expense of hardworking New Mexico families, and throughout our country. Sheriffs, and commissioners from nine Mexico counties recently sent a letter to your state’s congressional delegation begging them to vote for strong border security they want in New Mexico. They don’t want open borders. They don’t want criminals pouring into your communities, and doing what they do, and we won’t even talk about that.
 They want strong, these are people that are with you in many cases, Democrats. They write letters, we need strong border security. In San Diego, California is very difficult. Always complaining, not doing great, but they wanted a wall in San Diego, good mayor in San Diego by the way. They wanted a wall. And I said, “You know what, let’s build it someplace else.” Because California, you know, once we build it, they’ll complain. But then I said, “You know, the people are pouring in.” They needed it. They’re pouring into San Diego, like going all over the place. And people that had houses, they didn’t like people running over their gardens all day long, coming in from the other side. So we put up a wall, and I thought everybody would be happy. As soon as it was finished, the day it was finished, I was notified. We didn’t want the wall. Why did you do the wall? And I will tell you, in other words, it’s all a game.
 I’d love to take the sucker down and move it right now to New Mexico. And if I did that, they’d go crazy. And they’d say, “Please sir, don’t do that. Please, please.” The same people that are saying, “We don’t want a wall. Why did you put up a wall?” And I knew that was going to happen. I told my people that was going to happen. But they’re very happy with their wall. Most of them won’t say it. They love it. It stopped… it only stopped 99.9% of the people coming in. And the only reason I’m not moving it to New Mexico is that it would cost more money to move it than to build you a brand new, beautiful wall, so I’ll give you a brand new beautiful wall.
 … New beautiful wall, I’ll give you a brand-new one. It’s true. It’s true. I actually priced it out. It’s true. These contractors, all my life I’ve been deal… They can find a way to make money. “Sir, it’ll cost more money to move the wall that they built a new one.” They have it, but the commission your commissioners wrote, I quote, “Our communities do not have the resources nor the budgets to handle the massive influx of immigrants we are experiencing.” This is your commissioners writing to us in Washington. Our scarce resources are in danger of being rapidly depleted to the point that we will be unable to effectively care for our own citizens, you, and our existing homeless populations, many of whom are American veterans, right? So, Democrats put illegal aliens before American citizens. Republicans believe that we must take care of our own citizens first. I’m sorry. That includes millions of hardworking, lawful immigrants who waited in line, followed the rules, and came into our country legally. And among those hardest hit by illegal immigration are Hispanic Americans who obey our laws, pay their taxes, contribute to our communities and play by the rules, and they’re the ones that want to see something done and we are doing it at a level that nobody else would be capable of doing it. Whether you’re a first generation or a 10th generation, every American citizen deserves a government that defends your jobs, your safety, your family, and is always loyal to you. Your politicians have not been loyal to you. They have been loyal to themselves.
 The Democrats are also trying to turn every city in America into a sanctuary for criminal aliens, and that’s one of the very good reasons we won on Tuesday night, North Carolina, because they let people out of their sanctuary city and what those people did, I will not tell you tonight, but it wasn’t good. It’s one of the reasons we had big victories, two of them in North Carolina, sanctuary cities. And plenty of people, even in California where they have sanctuary cities, they don’t want sanctuary cities. The politicians do, but they don’t want them. Right here in New Mexico, Democrats are trying to turn you into a total sanctuary state, creating a safe harbor for dangerous criminal aliens and gang members that sanctuary policies release from jail.
 Now, think of it. They want to make your whole state a sanctuary state. So, when MS-13 comes in, and I told you before, we take them out by the thousands and they’re tough. They’re tough, but our ICE folks are even tougher. There’s nobody tougher. I would say naive, but maybe it’s much worse than that. They’re naive, these politicians. The naive politicians, they don’t want ICE to come in. They don’t want to take these criminals out. And if you don’t take them out and they’re in New Mexico, I got to tell you something, folks. You got problems. You got problems. You’ve got big problems. Republicans believe our cities should be sanctuaries for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens. And Republicans will always support the heroes of ICE, border patrol and our great law enforcement. The Democrat party… Do you notice I always say the Democrat party? You know, before I came, they were all calling it Democratic because it sounds better, right? It does. It’s much nicer. The Democratic party is much nicer than the Democrat party, but their name is the Democrat party, and I’m not looking for them to sound nice. I want to give their name. So, I always say the Democrat party, but that’s their name, the Democrat party. Frankly, they should probably change it because it does… And then I’d call them the Democratic party, but the Democrat party has never been farther outside the mainstream. Every major… That’s a nasty fly. I don’t like those suckers. I don’t know about you in New Mexico, but I’m not into flies or mosquitoes.
 I don’t like snakes too much. We have plenty of them in New York and Washington, a different variety. I don’t like snakes either. We got a lot of snakes in Washington DC. We got a lot of steaks in New York. I don’t like either kind of snake. I think I like the kind on the ground better than the ones we have in Washington.
 Every major Democrat running for president supports a massive government takeover of healthcare that would destroyed Medicare as we know it today. My administration will protect Medicare and defend your right to choose the plan and the doctor that is best for you. And we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. The Republicans will always do that. Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in more than 50 years. You don’t hear this because the fake news doesn’t want to write about it.
 Sometimes I’ll have a news conference about something that’s so good and I’ll say, you know… I’ll call my wife, first lady, first lady. People love our first lady. I’ll say, “Wait until you see television tonight, and we did something that was so great,” whatever it may be. We did a lot of things. We did something so great and it won’t be on, but if there’s something that’s just slightly negative or even if it’s good that they could turn negative, that’s what they like best. Take something good and turn it negative. It’s breaking… We have breaking news. We have breaking news. These are phony people, but that’s okay. You know, when you think of it, I’m president and they’re not. Crazy. It’s crazy.
 You know, sometimes I’ll be in the oval office and I’ll be with my people. We have great people, and I’ll say, “You know,” and it’s great comm in the oval office. You don’t like to hear about it because you don’t hear about it too much. That’s not what they… But we have great comm considering it’s pretty wild stuff going on in the world, right? But I’ll be saying, “You know, they don’t treat us right. They don’t treat us right. It’s not fair. It’s not this.” And then I’ll just sit back, I’ll say, “But we’re in the oval office and they’re not. It’s pretty amazing. It’s pretty amazing.”
 And when you have the Democrat party and the press, the media, the lame stream media, the fake news, and they’re partners… They are partners, okay? Remember the word “Manufactured?” They used the word manufacturer on something, never been used for that thing, and every news gets “The manufactured crisis started.” The next one, “This crisis was manufactured.” Every one of them used the word “Manufactured.” They know what I’m talking about now. Now, that’s called collusion, folks. That’s real collusion. You have that, and so you have the Democrats, you have the media, their partners. Then you have the deep state. We’re getting rid of a lot of them. I’ll tell you, we’re finding them left and right. Boom.
 You take a look at what… I’ll tell you what. I’ll tell you what. You take a look at what we’re doing with all of the things. I’m not going to get into detail, but you know what I’m talking about. Clean the swamp. That’s the ultimate cleaning of the swamp. And then I hate to say this, but we have some Republicans, they’re not good. You call them a rhino. They’re rhinos. The rhinos are worse, and some of them are worse than the Obama people, right? They’re worse than the Obama people. They’re worse than the Clinton people, but there aren’t too many of them left. They’re pretty much on respirators. They’re gasping. They’re gasping for air, but we do have some bad people that you wouldn’t believe. I didn’t hear you. Why did you say why? What? I didn’t hear that.
 Virtually, every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mothers right up until the moment of birth, and that’s why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. It’s true. Right? I see it. Just like mom, I see it. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, and socialism.
 The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and it is the party of the American dream. We’ve achieved record funding for the US military. All of that money, trillions and trillions of dollars spent all produced right here in the good old USA. And I have to tell you, New Mexico, I know you’re going to like this. A lot of those trillions because you know when you do the 716 and the 730 and the 700 -billion, all of a sudden you’re in trillions and I can save a lot of lines when I just say trillions. A lot of that money’s going to be spent in the state of the art military equipment that’s being used at Holloman Air Force Base, White Sands Missile Range, Kirkland Air Force Base and many other vital New Mexico military installations that are going up as we speak.
 That’s also jobs, but more importantly than even jobs, incredible. What you’ve done for the military, New Mexico, is incredible and we’ve remembered, but we’re pouring a lot of money into New Mexico and that means a lot of good things. And we’re investing in our nation’s nuclear security, including right here in New Mexico and Sandia National Laboratories and Los Alamos National Laboratory. To protect American security, I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. It was no good and we oppose the toughest ever sanctions on the Iranian regime. Watch how that works out, folks. That’ll be very good. I recognized Israel’s true capitol and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. And don’t forget what I did for Israel with respect to Golan Heights. Don’t forget, right? For years, you watched as your politicians apologize for America. Now, you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for New Mexico.
 And you must never forget. Get out there and vote and get ready and get everybody. We need it because we’re fighting a lot of forces, including Facebook, I saw, and Google, I saw. Did you see Google? He said I may have lost two-million to 10-million votes, according to this character that worked at Google, right? And we still won. How the hell did we win? Everybody was against us. How did we win? How did we win? This is a Google executive. From two-million to 10.5-million votes, and we won. I don’t know, we must be doing… I will say this. That happened and people came from the valleys. They came from everywhere. They Came from places that nobody’s ever talked about before and it was the forgotten men and women, but the truth is I know these men and women and they’re the most incredible men and women in this country. They really are. They just never had anybody they really wanted to vote for or at least for a long time, they didn’t want to get out there. They said, “Oh, boy. Oh, boy. Is this the best they can do?”
 I mean, in all fairness, I don’t want to go too early here. Look at the field. Did you watch the debate the other day? We’ve got almost 350-million people. I’ll take it. That’s the best they can do. We’ll see. We’ll see. You never want to get too cocky. Somebody said in the great state of Texas, “Donald Trump is down two points to Buttigieg.” Buttigieg. Buttigieg. They’re phony polls. You know they have phony polls. I told this story the other night. For six months, I was hearing that I’m going to lose the state of Texas and friends of mine from Texas that look just like these guys. See these two guys with the hates? They might even be better looking. They look just like… And they want to say, “I don’t know about you, but I know a lot about Texas and Donald Trump is not going to be losing the state of Texas.” Remember that?
 See, they don’t say it’s in play. They’re too smart. They say Texas is in play. And Utah, they said was it play. All these are in play and play means we could lose them, right? It’s a better term though because this way, they can’t get skunked, but they can get skunked with me. So, what happens is on that beautiful election… Was that one of the greatest, coolest nights ever? Well, they can never call a victory unless you absolutely have it and unless you’re winning by a lot. This is six months. “Texas is in play. You know, he could lose Texas.” I keep saying, I go to a stadium, we sell out to thousands of people, lines that are miles long. I mean, and every friend of mine says, “You’re going to win by a lot.”
 So, they announce 8:00, whatever time, “The polls in Texas are closed. Donald Trump has won this state of Texas. The polls in Utah are closed. Donald Trump has won the state of Utah.” They don’t even take a breath. Now, if it’s close like it’s in play, you wait two, three, four or five hours to see what it is, but they don’t even a breath because they’re called suppression poles and they’re no different than all of the dishonest reporting that you people see. They’re no different. They’re suppression polls, and I’ll tell you what. We’re going to win the state of New Mexico and I’ll be so surprised if we don’t. I’ll be so surprised.
 No, we’re going to win New Mexico. You know, when I came here during the last election, came here a little because I was told very hard to win and I came here a little, but I saw great spirit. But I didn’t really have a track record because I never did this stuff before. So, I said I was going to cut your taxes. I did. I said I was going to cut your regulations. I did more than any president in history and they’ve been there for many years. I’ve been there for two and a half. And I think the regulation cutting… Like the Waters of the US, that was another beauty where you couldn’t build a house, you couldn’t farm your land. Now, what we’ve done on regulations is incredible.
 I’ve done… I’ve rebuilt our military, I’ve taken care of our vets. Look how happy our vets are with choice. Instead of waiting for two months to see a doctor or two weeks or three days, they now go out. If there’s a wait, they go out, they get a private doctor. They get taken care of. We pay the bill. And for the first time, they’ve tried to get that for 45 years, they haven’t been able to get it, but I’m good at getting things.
 You must never forget. The 2020 election is about one thing. What’s it about? It’s about you. It is. It’s about you. It’s about you. I’m doing a good job as your messenger, but basically I’m a messenger. I know what you want. I understand that it’s about your family. It’s about your future, and it’s about the fate of your country for your children, for everybody. It’s about the fate of your country. It’s about the future of our great country.
 No matter what label they use, a vote for any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction of the American dream. That’s what it’s about. Look at Venezuela. Venezuela, 15 years ago, was one of the wealthiest countries in the world and today, very sad. No food, no water, no nothing. Socialism. We begin this campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda, and the only positive vision for America. And it’s not just a little bit positive. Our country is going to be greater than it ever was. That’s where we’re headed.
 Together, we will help millions more citizens know the dignity of work, the pride of a paycheck and the satisfaction of a job really well done. With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair, and very lawful system of immigration. And we’re going to have a lot done anyway. We already do have a lot done. You saw the figures last week, but we’re doing it the hard way. It would be so much easier with a little stroke of the pen. We will enact trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words, that incredible phrase, “Made in the USA.” We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America within 10 years, and we’ve already started that program. It will happen. We have the medicine. Nobody even knew that.
 The AIDS epidemic in this country will be gone within 10 years. We’ve already started the process. It’s been funded. It’s been funded. Who would’ve thought that? Honestly, when I ran, I didn’t know that. We have now the technology and what they’ve done with respect to AIDS is incredible. What a terrible, terrible period of time the world went through, but we will have it ended within 10 years. We will defeat the effort to drive up the cost of houses, cars, healthcare, light bulbs. Right? They took away our light bulb. I want an incandescent light. I want to look better, okay?
 I want to pay less money to look better. Does that make sense? You pay much less money and you look much better and on top of that, with the new bulbs, if they break, it’s considered a hazardous waste site. It’s all gases inside and you’re supposed to bring it back to where you bought it in a sealed container. Give me a break. I asked the people, the professionals, “Well, what do people do when it breaks? Because they break all the time. What do they do?” Nothing, they throw it away. A lot of people didn’t know. They didn’t understand. You got a much better light at a much reduced cost and it’s much safer because when those other bulbs break, they really are dangerous. The gases come out, they’re dangerous. These are the little things that I have to explain. Otherwise, people will say, “What the hell are you doing with light bulbs for?”
 And we’re trying to do the same thing with cars. Cars have so much junk on them now to save a tiny little fraction of gasoline. They have so much junk that they’re less safe. So, what I want to do is the following. Under our rules and regulations, the cars are environmentally terrific, but they’re safer and they’re $3,500 less to buy, right? And the reason they’re safer is because they could be a little bit heavier. Makes sense, right? They could be a little bit heavier. I mean, they make them now like paper mache. Somebody touches them and the entire car collapses. When somebody hits me, I want to be in as close to an army tank as possible. No, they’re made out of paper mache. They weigh about three pounds and if you get hit by a bus, it’s over. They say, “What happened to that car?” No, I think of it, it’s safer and it’s less expensive by $3,500 on average. And California wants you to do the other cars and we don’t. We’re going to end up in a big litigation and I’m fighting for you. Look. Look, it’s not the kind of thing most presidents would be fighting for because they say, “Let them pay more. Let it be unsafe.” They listen to the environmentalists, and I’m an environmentalist. I believe in the environment. I want the cleanest water on the planet. I want the cleanest air. I want a lot of things. You know, right now, we have the cleanest air that we’ve ever had in this country?
 But what are they going to do about China and India and Russia and other countries that are spewing stuff? What are we doing about them? We’re going to keep our nation clean. But you know, the universe is so big that when you talk about China, the USA, India, you talk about these different places where a lot of bad stuff comes out, right? It’s so big that it’s right next to each other. It’s right next to each other. Does that make sense? Right? It’s right next to each other. So, what are they going to do? We want to have the cleanest water and the cleanest air. We will defend privacy. We will defend free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and we will always defend your second amendment and we’re doing it now. And above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one America. We support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.
 We stand with our incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and in the sanctity of life. We believe that mothers and fathers, not Washington bureaucrats, know best how to raise their strong, beautiful families in their loving and wonderful communities. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will always live by the words of our national motto. Nobody will ever take it down. Nobody will ever take it down. We will never allow them to take it down. In God we trust. We stand on the shoulders of American Patriots who built this country into the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth and we are going to be better than ever before and it won’t even be close, and we’re right there. Our ancestors crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered sciences, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, put a man on the moon and built the most exceptional country in the history of the world. And every day of my presidency, we will never forget that we are Americans and the future belongs to us. The future belongs to each and every one of you. Right? With your help, your devotion and your drive… ( silence)
 Gee, it’s too bad. He did it right in the crescendo. How do you top that? I just readied the big beautiful crescendo and this character’s going back home. It’s all right. It’s two people tonight. Remember, when they say “Massive protest at the Trump rally,” two people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning in a win like never before. We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of the great state of New Mexico, we love you. The best is yet to come. Best is yet to come. Thank you, New Mexico. And together, we will make America wealthy again. Very, very wealthy. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you. New Mexico. Thank you. Thank you, New Mexico. Thank you. Thank you.
 Well, hello Minnesota. It is great to be back in the North Star State. Thank you for that warm welcome. But I’m here for one reason, and one reason only, that Minnesota and America need four more years of President Donald Trump in the White House. Like all of you, I’m here because I stand with President Donald Trump. When this president stands up for American workers, from the cities to the Iron Range, I stand with President Donald Trump. When this president stands up for faith, and freedom, and the American flag, I stand with President Donald Trump. And when this president stands up to the radical Democrats in Congress trying to overturn the will of the American people with endless investigations and partisan politics, we stand with President Donald Trump.
 You know what began four years ago has grown into a movement, a movement of everyday Americans from every walk of life. All of you believe we could be strong again. You believe we could be prosperous again. America said yes to president Donald Trump in 2016, and Minnesota, I know you’re going to say yes to four more years of president Donald Trump in 2020.
 When you think of the last three years, there’s only one way you can describe it. It’s been three years of action. It’s been three years of results. It’s been three years of promises made and promises kept. But we’re just getting started, Minnesota. I mean, think about it, this president promised to rebuild our military, and President Trump has signed the largest investment in our national defense since the days of Ronald Reagan.
 He promised to stand with our veterans and give our veterans access to the real-time world-class healthcare that you earned, we reformed the VA, and Veterans Choice is now available for every veteran. And this president promised to secure our border, we made historic investments in border security. Apprehensions on our Southern border are already down by 60%. And we’ve already started to build that wall on the Southern border of the United States. We’re doing it.
 Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall.
 And President Trump promised to appoint principled conservatives to our federal courts at every level. And at last count, he’s appointed 180 men and women who will uphold the God-given liberties in our Constitution, like the freedom of religion and the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms. And this president promised, he promised to stand with the men and women of law enforcement at every level. And we’ve done just that. As the Cops for Trump know, Trump’s for cops.
 And finally, President Trump promised to revive the American economy, he cut taxes across the board, we rolled back red tape at a record level, unleashed American energy, and Minnesota’s economy is booming. It’s true. Since Election Day 2016, 6.4 million new jobs have been created by businesses, large and small. Unemployment’s at a 50-year low, and there’s more Americans working today than ever before in the history of this country.
 On one promise after another, President Donald Trump delivered. And thanks to the president’s leadership and our strong conservative allies in Congress, like Congressman Tom Emmer, Congressman Jim Hagedorn, Congressman Pete Stauber, we’ve made America great again. It’s true. But to keep America great, we need you to decide right here and right now that Minnesota is going to vote for four more years of President Donald Trump in the White House.
 Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.
 Because four more years means more jobs. Four more years means more judges. Four more years means more support for our troops. And it’s going to take at least four more years to drain that swamp.
 The choice in this election couldn’t be clearer, and the stakes couldn’t be higher. Today we have a president who loves this country, who stands by our military, our law enforcement, our workers, and our freedoms. He never quits. He never backs down. He believes in you, and he fights for you every single day.
 And that’s more can you can say for those do-nothing Democrats in Washington DC. I mean, the truth is the Democratic Party has been taken over by radical leftists who want higher taxes, open borders, late-term abortion, and socialist policies that would crush our economy. And worst of all, today’s Democrats have spent the last three years trying to overturn the will of the American people in the last election. And they’re back at it again. But despite three years of non-stop resistance and investigations and obstruction by the Democrats and the media, I’m here to tell you President Donald Trump has never stopped fighting to keep the promises that he made to the people of Minnesota, and he never will.
 But now, Minnesota, it’s our turn to fight for him. I mean, it’s on. And we got work to do. And it’s going to take all of us to do it. So we need you to bring your enthusiasm, be ready to volunteer your time, voice your support, and get ready to get out the vote for four more years of President Donald Trump in November of 2020.
 And while you’re bringing all that energy and enthusiasm, bring your faith too. Bring faith in this president, whose drive and vision has made America great again. Have faith in our fellow Americans, that every time they’re given a choice between more freedom and more government, the American people choose freedom every single time. And finally, finally, have that faith that he who blessed this one nation under God will still bless America beyond anything that we can ask and imagine. So have faith.
 Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you firsthand, President Donald Trump is the real deal. He’s a man who says what he means, and means what he says. And I see every day, he gets up and fights to keep the promises that he made to the people of Minnesota and the people of all this country. He’s made America great again. And with your support and your prayers, I know he will keep America great.
 So now it is my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to you my friend, and the 45th president of the United States, President Donald Trump.
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
 Thank you very much. Thank you, Minnesota. This is a great state. We are going to win this state in a very short period of time. Thank you. This feels like the day before the election. So we have 20,000-plus people inside. We just set a new record. And we have 25,000 people that we still love, outside. And close to 100,000 people wanted to come tonight. Thank you all. This is great. This is really great. Thank you.
 I want to thank our great vice president, Mike Pence, and Karen Pence, for being here tonight. It is great to be back in the Twin Cities with the freedom-loving American patriots who make our country run. You know that. You know it. For the next 13 months, think of that, it seems like yesterday, for the next 13 months, we are going to fight with all of our heart and soul, and we are going to win the great state of Minnesota in 2020.
 America now has the number one economy anywhere in the world, and it’s not even close. You know I’m dealing with China right now. They’re in Washington. We’re going to see if we make a deal. But they want to make it. We’re going to determine whether or not we want to make it. But they’ve been very nice. And today I got a call from one of the top representatives, he said, “Congratulations, Mr. President, on having a truly great, great economy.” That’s pretty nice.
 We picked up, since the election, trillions of dollars in value. And China has lost trillions of dollars in value. I will say this, if our opponent had won that election, you know what would have happened? Right now China would become the … It would be the number one economy anywhere in the world. And right now I can tell you they’re not even close.
 Our country is stronger than ever before because we are proudly putting, for the first time in a long time, we are putting America first.
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
 And I have to say, there are a lot of very beautiful red T-shirts in the audience. That was a record sale. They did very well. And I’ll tell you what: cops love Trump, Trump loves cops. Our bold pursuit of this pro-American agenda has enraged, and you know what’s happened, it’s enraged the failed ruling class in Washington. Not easy to get them out, but we’re doing it slowly, but surely. These corrupt politicians and the radical leftists got rich bleeding America dry. And they knew that my election would finally end their pillaging and looting of our country. And that’s what they were doing. And that’s what they continue to try and do. That is why, from day one, the wretched Washington swamp has been trying to nullify the results of a truly great and democratic election, the election of 2016. They’re trying. They’re not getting very far. They want to erase your vote like it never existed. They want to erase your voice. And they want to erase your future. But they will fail, because in America, the people rule again.
 Do you remember that, just 19 minutes after I raised my hand and took the oath of office, The Washington Post, a terrible newspaper that doesn’t know how to write the truth, published a story, and in this case, they might’ve gotten it pretty correct, they said, “The Campaign To Impeach President Trump Has Begun.” That was the headline. Little did we know they weren’t playing games. Think of that. That was 19 minutes after the oath of office.
 Months earlier, Peter Strzok, remember, he and his lover, Lisa Page. What a group. “She’s going to win 10 million to one. She’s going to win. I’m telling you, Peter. I’m telling you, Peter, she’s going to win. Peter. Oh, I love you so much.”
 “I love you too, Lisa. Lisa, I love you. Lisa, Lisa, oh God, I love you, Lisa. And if she doesn’t win, Lisa, we’ve got an insurance policy, Lisa. We’ll get that son of a bitch out. We got an insurance policy.”
 And we’re living through the insurance policy. That’s what it is. The phony Russia hoax. ” Lisa, I love you.” Now the do-nothing Democrat con artists and scammers are getting desperate. 13 months, they got to move fast, because they’re not beating us at the polls and they know it, despite the phony polls that you see all the time, their phony polls. You know, polls are no different. Remember I always used to talk about polls, I know polls very well. Polls are no different than crooked writers. They’re crooked polls. They’re crooked polls. No different.
 Boy, that’s a lot of media. Look back there. That’s a lot of media. They are so dishonest. And frankly, they are so bad for our country. They are so bad. And they could be so good for our country. They could be so good. And maybe they’ll change, and maybe they won’t. I’ve been waiting for a long time. After I won the last election, I said, “Finally it’s okay. Finally I’ll get some great press.” They got worse. They got worse. I said, “Finally, we’re going to get …” I said to the first lady, “Darling, we’re going to finally get respect. We’re going to finally get media and press coverage. It’s going to be great. Look at what we’ve done.” And I’m telling you, they did, they got worse.
 They know they cannot win. You understand. Well, if you didn’t understand, honestly, there’s no way anybody could win, because you’d believe them. If you believe them, there’s no way anybody could … Because it’s like 94% … I can do the greatest things in history, and they’ll make them bad to very bad. And if I do a neutral, something neutral, it worked out okay, not great, it’s like, “Give him the electric chair. That was terrible.” Right? No, this is the worst.
 We love you, Trump. [crosstalk 00:24:26]-
 These people and the Democrats, they’re partners. It’s a partnership. How about on the newscast, like the word “manufactured,” it’s manu… And every newscast, “Tonight, in a manufactured deal along the border …” The word’s never been used … All of a sudden every newscast is using it. It’s a talking point given to these fakers by the Democrats.
 So they know they can’t win the 2020 election, so they’re pursuing the insane impeachment witch hunt. I’ve been going through it now for more time than I’ve been in office. Because, like Strzok with his insurance deal, this was before, remember this, this was before, that statement was made months before I took office. That statement was made months before the election took place. They said, “Just in case, we’re going to have an insurance policy.” That only means one thing, “We’re going to get him out.” So they’re telling us. We can’t let that ever happen again to another president.
 And Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, a lot of people, the great Mark Levin. We have a lot of great people. Lou Dobbs, great people. You know what they said? Every one of them, plus many others, “There’s no other man that we’ve ever met that could have taken it.” It’s true. Maybe I’m a little different up here. I don’t know. But I enjoy it. To me, I’m energized because we’re draining the swamp. The Democrats’ brazen attempt to overthrow our government will produce a backlash at the ballot box the likes of which they have never ever seen before in the history of this country. These are bad people. My phone call, as an example, with the president of Ukraine, was perfect. Everybody that looked at it. And the only reason I released it was that the Democrats put out a phony narrative. So I had no choice. And I don’t want to do that as president, every time a president from a country calls me, or I call them, we have to release the text. How can you do business that way? Who’s going to want to speak to your president? So the president of Ukraine reiterated today at a major news conference, on other subjects, that he was under absolutely no pressure. He doesn’t even know what they’re talking about. And he used the word, there was no “blackmail” during this call. He used that term. So in theory, that should be the end of it.
 Think of it, a president of the United States who’s made our economy, with a lot of help from all of you, frankly, but from Mike and from some of our great senators and some of our great people that we have with us, we made this the strongest economy in our history. We’ve rebuilt our military. We’re taking care of healthcare like nobody’s been able to do. What we’ve done is incredible. And by the way, we’re protecting your Second Amendment. If you don’t have me, your Second Amendment is gone.
 So we have the greatest economy, the greatest military. We’ve rebuilt our military, $2. 5 trillion, because when I took it over, it was a mess. And what do they want to do? “Let’s impeach our president,” right? I don’t think so. I don’t think so. I think we’re going to have a turnout the likes of which we’ve never seen in the history of our country.
 So we were really forced, just to put it away, we were forced. I said, “Just do it.” Got the approval from Ukraine. I have to ask. I said, “Hey, do you guys mind?” They said, “That’s a strange request.” I said, “Don’t worry about it. Do you mind?” And they said, “Please, go ahead. Nothing was said wrong on that call.” So we released the transcript of the call, which was so good that that crooked Adam Schiff, this guy is crooked, he had to make up a fake conversation that never happened-
 A fake conversation that never happened, and he delivered it to the United States Congress and the American people. It was a total fraud. And then Nancy Pelosi said, “Oh, I think the president said that.” These people are sick. I’m telling you, they’re sick. And you know what? Had they waited one day longer, they would have had the transcript of the actual call, word for word. It would’ve been perfect. Instead, they released it, they went early, they said all these horrible things. You know why? Because they never thought in a million years that I was going to release a transcript of the call.
 So Nancy Pelosi, upon hearing a false story from a whistleblower that had no clue what was going on in that call, or somebody gave her very bad advice, but also hearing it from shifty shift Nancy Pelosi said, a day before seeing the transcript of the call with the Ukrainian president, “We’ve got to impeach him. We’ve got to impeach him.” Right? And then she saw the call and she said to her people, “What the hell? Nobody ever told me this was the call.” But she keeps going anyway because the press is fake and they play right into their hands.
 The do nothing democratic extremists have gone so far left that they believe it should not be a crime to cross our border illegally, and it should be a crime to have a totally appropriate casual, beautiful, accurate phone call with a foreign leader. I don’t think so. As our brilliant White House counsel wrote to the Democrats yesterday, he said, “Their highly partisan and unconstitutional effort threatens grave and lasting damage to our democratic institutions, to our system of free elections, and to the American people.” That’s what it is. To the American people. It’s so terrible. Democrats are on a crusade to destroy our democracy. That’s what’s happening. We will never let it happen. We will defeat them. I mean, look at their debates. These people are crazy. They want to spend $99 trillion to redo buildings all over the United States. I said, “What about China? What about Russia? What about India? What about all these other countries where that stuff is just flowing out?” It’s all right. Let him give you the answer. Man, did the cops act fast. He’s already gone. That’s unbelievable. That’s the fastest … You know I have … Look, I love law enforcement. I love the cops. I love the police, all of it.
 Minneapolis, Minneapolis, you’ve got a rotten man. You’ve got to change your mayor. You’ve got a bad mayor. You’ve got a bad mayor. But you know what? The police … I’ve done this a lot and every once in a while we’ll have very little disturbance. It’s really … Actually, is there any place where we can have more fun than at a Trump rally? And we’ve set every record at every place, virtually, that we’ve gone. And one of the big musicians said, “And Trump does it without a guitar.” Can you believe it? Without a guitar. But this guy … So I’ve had it a lot where … But sometimes it’ll take the police like 30 seconds, 50 seconds.
 It’s like Roger Penske when you watch him, who’s getting the Presidential Medal of Freedom, by the way, pretty soon. He won 18 Indy 500s, 18, Roger Penske. But it’s like the way they change those tires, takes four seconds to change the whole damn thing. I say, “How the hell do they do it?” That’s the way these cops just reacted. That was a record. I think it was a … I’ve had good service, but I’ve never had anything like that. I look up, the guy is already gone. Ah, we love you with the red shirts. So now the Democrats are making a pathetic bid to save sleepy Joe, sleepy Joe Biden. And you know what? I’d love to run against him, to be honest. Anybody like that. If you can’t beat him in a debate, you’ve got a big problem folks. You can’t beat him in a debate, you can’t be president. Because what are you going to do against President Xi and Kim Jong Un. You can’t beat sleepy Joe, but now we’re going to meet with Kim Jong Un? I don’t think so. But he’s totally owned and totally controlled by the Washington swamp for many years.
 Two months after president Obama put Joe in charge of Ukraine policy, they put Joe Biden in charge of Ukraine policy. Listen to this. And the press will not write it. They say, “In totally unsubstantiated charges …” every time they talk about him. President Trump has said that his son walked away with a fortune. Now you know that’s a totally unsubstantiated charge. Really? It’s not an unsubstantiated, it’s fact. Joe’s son Hunter got thrown out of the Navy and then he became a genius on Wall Street in about two days.
 By the way, whatever happened to Hunter. Where the hell is he? Where’s Hunter? Hey fellows, I have an idea for a new t-shirt. I love the cops, but let’s do another t-shirt. Where’s Hunter? Where is he? Here’s Hunter, being examined by sleepy eyes Chuck Todd or some of these people. Hunter, it’s so great that you’re here, sir. Hunter, I know they’re giving you approximately $168,000 a month. I hear they paid you a big check of $3 million. I just want to speak on behalf of NBC who’s absolutely one of the worst. I just want to tell you … Hunter, Hunter I just want to tell you I couldn’t be happier for you and your family and I know you don’t know anything about energy and I know it’s an energy company, but I think they made a great deal, Hunter. And then they fly to China, and I’m dealing with people right now. They’re tough as hell, those Chinese negotiators, and Hunter, who’s not too smart, Hunter. He goes in, he has a meeting, he walks out in his fund with 1.5 billion, with a B, one point five billion dollars. These aren’t the same Chinese negotiators that I’m dealing with, I can tell you. These are not the same ones, but we are doing very well in that negotiation. Now, think of it, where’s Hunter? Where is Hunter? I want to see Hunter? Hunter, you know nothing about energy, you know nothing about China, you know nothing about anything, frankly. Hunter, you’re a loser. Why did you get one point five billion dollars, Hunter. And your father was never considered smart. He was never considered a good Senator. He was only a good vice president because he understood how to kiss Barack Obama’s ass. True. Thank you. Thank you. It’s true. It’s true. And they’re always saying the same thing. Yeah, he got a billion five, we admit it, they admit it, it’s nothing, but oh, it’s not that same thing, president Trump made a totally unsubstantiated claim about Hunter Biden and his father. It’s not unsubstantiated, you crooked son of a guns, it’s 100% true. 100%. Even the smart guys on Wall Street, and I know all of them, they are smart. They’ve never seen anything like that one before. I’ve called them. Does that ever happen? Never happens. Guy walks in, no experience, no nothing. Walks out with a billion five. Gee. Flies in on Air Force Two with his father, the vice president. Don’t forget, that’s when he was vice president. So China gives his son 1.5 billion. How would you like to have Joe Biden take over negotiations right now with China? I don’t think so.
 I don’t think so. Meanwhile, Biden allowed China to rip off America for eight years as vice president, and Barack Obama let him just rob us blind, and we’re not doing that anymore. Those days are over. The Bidens got rich and that is substantiated. While America got robbed, that’s what happened. Sleepy Joe and his friends out America, they didn’t have tough negotiations. I look at these trade deals and I say, “Who the hell could have done this?” If you didn’t … If you had no business instinct, no business ability, if you had nothing, if you’re dumb as hell, you wouldn’t make these deals, they’re so bad. I say, “Who made these deals? Who made these deals?” But we’re ripping them all up and redoing them and they’re going to be very good. Wait until you see what happens. Now that I’m your president, you see it. America is winning again and we’re respected again as a nation.
 USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
 A brand new report just came out as I’m walking on the stage. Hard to believe, actually. It turns out that Joe Biden was vice president, he worked with the so called whistle blower.
 This is nothing but a partisan witch hunt, sabotage, and I’m sure they’re going to say it’s totally unsubstantiated, but one of them wrote this story. Congratulations, by the way. That’s very nice. That’s really good. That’s the way you should do it. Good. Good. Good. In the twisted worldview of Democrats and the media, it’s okay for politicians to ship our jobs to foreign countries, flood our communities with drugs and crime, and enrich themselves at America’s expense. Their treachery is allowed because they go along with the rigged Washington game, and it is far more rigged. When I ran, I thought it was rigged, but this is crazy what’s happening. But if you refuse to bow or bend to the Washington swamp, which I could do very easily, I’d be much more popular. Folks, it would be so much easier.
 I got it. I got to tell you, isn’t it much better when I go off script? Isn’t it better? So much. It’s just … Hey folks, the greatest buyer of advertisements in the history of the world, Mike Lindell, My Pillow. I have never seen so many ads. I think he’s the greatest ad negotiator in history, and I told them, I said, “Would you do me a favor? All the money we spend on these political campaigns, if I gave some of that money to Mike, I think it would have ads every single minute of every single show.” I never saw so many. Anyway. But the lawless political establishment will try to frame you. They’ll persecute you. They’ll swear and just swear up and down that they’re telling the truth. When Nancy Pelosi was on television the other day … I have to say, I have to say I was very proud of George Stephanopoulos. I was very proud. It’s not often. She said, “No, no shifty shift told the truth when he said that.” Stephanopoulos said, “No way. No, no. It wasn’t the truth. It was a false statement.” No, no. It was the truth. He said, “No.” And she really believes it. So she’s either got one of two problems. She’s either really stupid, okay? Or she’s really lost it. Or maybe there’s a certain dishonesty [inaudible 00:16:22]. But they smear you, they spy on you, and they target your friends, your family, your staff for harassment, for abuse, for destruction.
 I came down to Washington with incredible people. We won a great political campaign. They were bright eyed and bushy tailed. that’s a nice phrase. They came down, they were happy. They wanted to turn the country around. They wanted to do great things. All of a sudden they get summoned and they get subpoenaed by Robert Mueller. How good was he as a witness? Not too good and by people that were, I call them the 13 angry Democrats, that turned into 18 angry Democrats. It was disgraceful. So people that were going down, “Sir, what is this?” I look, “Oh wow, that’s a subpoena.” What the hell is this? They took people … I really mean this. They took people that were full of life and energy and vigor. We had just won the greatest campaign in the history of American politics, it’s true. It’s true. And they destroyed their lives. They destroyed their lives. They went home.
 I could name many people, one in particular, who came down, an incredible young woman. She was going to help people. She wanted to help people. She had causes that were so good. She wanted to help people, and she ended up going home, dark, dark. Her life became hell. They ruined people. They destroyed people, good people. People that ended up paying far more money in legal fees than they made. Than they made. They destroyed great people. They’re vicious, horrible, and the media was behind every single step. They destroyed so many lives. They destroyed so many lives, and they’re continuing to do it. And it’s a disgrace.
 When all of their ludicrous hoaxes have been exposed as frauds, these sinister fakers then tried to impeach you for daring to call out their own corruption. There’s nothing like the dirty political establishment, and I have to tell you, this is, friend of mine, very smart, brilliant guy, was with me about two weeks ago. We just got rid of the Russia hoax and then a week later the Ukraine hoax starts. I had a week of like, “I can think about everything perfect. It’s so beautiful.” And he said, “President.” I said, “Call me Donald. You’ve called me Donald for 35 years.” “I will. Thank you Donald.” I’ve lost all my friends because they’re all scared to talk. Honestly, I’m the president that they can’t talk to me anymore. It’s like they’re afraid. They respect the office. It’s true. They say, “President.” I say, “Do me a favor, Richard. You’ve called me Donald for 35 years. Call me Donald, please. I want somebody to call me Donald.”
 Donald. Donald. Donald. Donald. Donald.
 True. He said to me, I just told him call me … He said, “President, I can’t do it.” He said. So he says, “President, you’ve been here now for, think of it, almost three years. Can you believe we’re here three years?” We, we, it’s we. And we have to promise them no more than 16 years. Okay? No more. No more. 16 more years. I’m only kidding. Now they’ll go back. See, he wants to run for more. But he said, “President, could I ask you a question? It’s so important to me.” He’s a great businessman, very successful. He said, “You deal with all of these nations, these great, powerful … Who is the worst to deal with? Is it China? Is it North Korea? Is India? Is it Russia? Please tell me, Mr. Pres, who is the toughest nation to deal with?” I said, “You’re not going to believe this. It’s the USA is the toughest nation to deal with.” The USA.
 It’s true. Because we’re dealing with some very sick and deranged people. There is nothing that the dirty political establishment hates more than a president that they cannot intimidate, own and control. They’re trying to stop me because they know that I don’t answer to them, I answer to you. It’s true. I never say this. I don’t think I’ve ever said it in a speech, but they’ll find out if I did. They’ll give me Pinocchios, he said it before, but I don’t know if I ever said this before. But I make, as president, about $450,000. I give it away. I don’t care. I don’t want it.
 I never hear anything. Can you imagine if I didn’t. I give it away to … You can only give it, you can’t keep it. You can’t actually make a gift. You can give it to your different agencies. So I can give it to health, I can give it to transportation, I can give it to military, but I give it away all the time. Now, and if I ever did … But it’s 450. If somebody stays from, let’s say, a middle East country in one of my hotels and we charge him 392 dollars and 53 cents for staying, and I never heard of the guy and I don’t want to hear about him, they say, “Trump is getting rich off our nation.”
 I lose billions being president. I don’t care. It’s nice to be rich, I guess. But I lose billions. If somebody rents a room someplace and they pay me two months in rent or hotel fees, I never heard of the people. I never know who they are. They say, “Emoluments.” Nobody ever heard of the word emoluments before. Emoluments. It’s the craziest thing I’ve ever seen. I tell you, it’s cost me billions of dollars to be president. It really has. And at some point I’ll probably to prove that, and I look forward to doing it.. It’s very easy. It’s very easy. And there is nothing that makes me happier than making that decision to run and win and straighten out the mess that these people have created.
 So in desperate attempt to attack our movement. Nancy and Chuck, two beauties, have given control of the Democrat party entirely over to the radical left, including Minnesota’s own representative Ilhan Omar. I know you people. I know you people. I know the people of Minnesota, and I want to tell you, and I also, at the same time, it’s both a question and a statement, how’d the hell did that ever happen? How did it happen? How did it happen? Congresswoman Omar is an America hating socialist. She minimized the September 11th attack on our homeland. Where far more than 3,000 people died, saying, “Some people did something big deal. Some people did something.” She pleaded for compassion for ISIS recruits right here in Minnesota. Omar laughed that Americans speak of Al-Qaeda. You remember that tape? Speak of Al-Qaeda. But when we say something about the United States, you just don’t say America with any intensity. Remember that? Representative Omar has a history of launching virulent anti-semitic screeds, whether you like it or not. She’s said the US support for Israel is all about the Benjamins. She said that pro-Israel lawmakers have an allegiance to a foreign country. Omar wrote that Israel has hypnotized the world, may Allah awaken the people and help them to see the evil doings of Israel and the United States.
 How do you have such a person representing you in Minnesota? I’m very angry at you people right now. She is a disgrace to our country, and she is one of the big reasons that I’m going to win, and the Republican party is going to win Minnesota in 13 months.
 Thank you very much. So we’re honored to have with us today a special guest, a man that really is a terrific talented writer. He knows a great deal about all those tangled lies of Omar. Mr. Scott Johnson of Power Line. He wrote some stuff, I can’t believe it. Where’s Scott? Where’s Scott? Thank you, Scott. Thank you, Scott. What a job. Man, do you have her figured out. The only problem is, Scott, it’s incredible talent, much more talented than most of these people that you heard about. The problem is they never pick it up. They don’t want to pick it up, but we pick it up, Scott, and the people get it and we thank you for your great reporting. Thank you. Thank you very much. And Scott reported everything about Omar is a fraud, including her name.
 Scott reports his sources told him that, quote, Omar’s legal husband was Omar’s brother and that she had married him for fraudulent purposes. You mean like coming into the United States, maybe? And as Scott says, “We have seen a plethora of congressional scandals in our history yet we have never seen scandals like Omar’s in Congress, and nothing gets done about it.” I hope that some of you people are looking, because what AOC has gotten away with campaign financing and what … I call it AOC plus three, that’s what it is. And Omar is one of the three. What AOC has gotten away with all of that money that she used for her personal self with campaign finance is worse, and nothing happens to them, but it happens to you, and it’s not fair. The fact is, we’re in a struggle for the survival of democracy in America. The only message these radical socialists and extremists will understand-
 Message these radical socialists and extremists will understand is a crushing defeat on November 3rd, 2020. With your help, we will win back the House, we will keep the Senate and we will win the White House. And we’re thrilled to be joined tonight by some incredible people that have helped me so much. One of your tremendous talented, tough, Congressman Tom Emmer. Tom. Also a man, you don’t want to fight him, and you don’t want to play him in hockey because he was tough.
 He just won, not that recently but pretty recently, and I was out here campaigning for him and working hard, and it turned out to be an easy race because everyone loves him and respects him. Congressman Pete Stauber. And a man who gets in the trenches, and he just doesn’t care. He wants to win for the people. He loves you. He loves this state. He loves this country. Jim Hagedorn. Thank you. And a great friend of mine with his incredible family. He’s a friend. He’s smart. I guess you’d say he’s brilliant. His education is incredible, his military career has been incredible.
 Then he ran for office, and now he’s a United States Senator from the great state of Arkansas, Senator Tom Cotton. Great guy. And Minnesota Senate Majority Leader, Paul Gazelka. Paul. Thank you Paul. Minnesota GOP Chairwoman, Jennifer Carnahan. She’s been incredible. I said, “Jennifer, are we going to win in 13 months?” She said, “Honestly sir, I’ve never seen anything like this. It’s going to be easy. Don’t ever say… Just assume we’re two points behind, okay?” Two points behind.
 You never ever… Please. Always just assume you’re a little behind, but we’re going to win this state by so much that people are going to be shocked. Ad plenty of other states too. We had a rally three weeks ago in New Mexico, and New Mexico’s a hard state for Republicans, hasn’t been won in a long time also. And we had receptivity that was unbelievable. The audience was 40% Hispanic, where we’re doing great. And you know, Hispanic, they understand borders better than anybody, better than we do.
 They understand safety, they understand their job, they don’t want people taking it away, they don’t want crime. They understand it better. That’s why we’re doing so well, but we’re in New Mexico, and I’m telling you, that was electric. But honestly, all evenings are electric. We haven’t had any bad ones. We haven’t. They’re all electric. A woman who headed up the great state of Michigan for me, a state that hadn’t been won in a long time by a Republican for whatever reason, but it hadn’t been won.
 I guess we didn’t have the right candidates, right? But a woman who would call me constantly. I’d say, “I don’t want to talk to her. She’s giving me a headache.” “Sir, if you make one more trip, you’re going to win Michigan.” I say, “All right,” I make the trip, I go back home. I get a call the next morning, “Sir, we need one more.” This went over and over and over, and we ended up winning the state of Michigan, and I said, “Who the hell was that woman that kept bugging me to go back to Michigan and speak just one more time every week? One more time, sir.”
 And her name is Ronna McDaniel. She’s fantastic, and she’s the head of the RNC. She’s great. And our campaign manager, a man who’s really been… They used to say that Crooked Hillary had a very very sophisticated campaign. After she lost, they said, “I guess it wasn’t sophisticated.” We had a sophisticated campaign. Nobody knows the world of computers better than this guy. Brad Parscale. Remember when they used to say it? You know, I never got credit. My father used to teach me, if you can do it for less and win, that’s good.
 He wasn’t talking politics. The last thing… He’s looking down. He’s definitely looking down, not looking up. He was great. He was tough, but he was great. But my father would say, “If you could do it for less and win, that’s a good thing, not a bad thing. If you can build a building for less money than the guy across the street, and if it’s a nicer building and you can rent for less, you’re really… That’s like a good thing.” So in the campaign, we spent much less money than Crooked Hillary Clinton, much. And we won. And we won.
 We won 306 to 223. That’s a pretty big… Remember? Remember they said electoral college. By the way, when you run, if you’re running, the electoral college is like the 100 yard dash, and the total vote, you don’t go certain places. You focus. Electoral college. We have to explain to them, it’s different. So we won 306, and do you remember they sued to say one’s the 100 yard dash. You practice. One’s the mile. You practice. It’s a different race. Winning the total vote is much easier in my opinion. The electoral college, I had to go to 22 different states. For the total vote, I’d go to four states maximum, right? Much easier. It’s much easier.
 I’m all for it, but the electoral college is better for our country because it forces you to go places that you wouldn’t go. I love Maine. I went to Maine four or five times. I needed one point. Maine gave me one point. And what happened? What happened? I went there numerous times. Everyone said, “Why?” Because I was told by these fraudsters back here in the media that Trump cannot get to 270. He cannot get… They had me maximum, if everything worked, right? At 269. So I kept going to Maine, and you know what? We won that one point in Maine. We won it.
 It’s true. But I kept going. They say, “Why?” I said, “Well, first of all, it is really a beautiful place,” but we won the point. But they said, “He can not get to 270,” and I heard this for months and months. I had such a headache, almost as bad as listening to Mike’s damn commercials about those pillows. Maybe I need one of those pillows to cure my headache. Does it cure headaches? I think so.
 But here’s the thing. Here’s the thing. So they said, “He cannot get to 270.” In other words, you can’t win. You don’t get to 270, it’s over. You can’t win, right? He cannot do it. There’s no way of doing it, and they were right. I got to 306. They were right. But I didn’t get to 306. You got to 306. We won incredible states. We won incredible states. We won Wisconsin, we won Michigan, we won Pennsylvania, we won North Carolina, we won South Carolina, we won Florida.
 What a run. Do you remember the evening that we won? I think… Look, forgetting me, I think it was won of all of us together because we all worked hard. I was the messenger, but we all worked hard. That was our victory, not my victory. But that was one of the greatest nights in the history of television, one of the greatest nights, and hopefully it’ll go down when we’re allowed to get all of this stuff seeded… You know, it’s like a tree. You plant it. You plant it. It has to go, but it needs a little…
 That’s why we need the four more additionally years. It’s got to grab on and catch, so they can’t destroy it. So they can’t destroy it. But I think it’ll go down, and I hope it’s going to go down as one of the greatest evenings in the history of this country, because it’s never happened, anything like that before. And these guys don’t even question it. They just sit back and say, “I guess he’s right about that.” I’ll never forget the night before, I was at a tremendous arena. The place was going crazy. It was like this, going crazy, and two reporters that hate my guts, they looked at themselves, they looked at each other.
 Famous shot. They’re looking like this and they’re saying, “What the hell is going on?” They knew. They knew. And I didn’t need Beyonce and Jay Z, and I didn’t need little Bruce Springsteen and all of these people. They’d get all these people. They’d come in because she couldn’t get a crowd. They’d come in, they’d sing. They got Bruce Springsteen. Okay? He’d do about two songs and leave. What happens is, they leave, and then everyone leaves with them, and she’s still speaking in front of the same lousy crowd. It’s the craziest thing I’ve ever seen.
 And then they complain. Sometimes I’ll use terrible word like hell. The other day I used the word hell. I got hell from… They said, “He used terrible language.” I used the word hell. It was so bad. But you’ve got to hear Jay Z, the words he was using, he was using the F word all over the place, and then the next day they say I use bad language. The word hell is a terrible word. These people are sick. But that was an amazing evening. I’ll never forget that evening. Look. Outside of your family and your children and things…
 I love you too, darling. It was one of the highest rated evenings in the history of television. You add up all those networks. Remember the woman crying? Oh my God. No, they weren’t biased at all. Now, another very special man who’s with us today, but he’ll never be a man to me, he’ll always be my boy, you know what I mean? Right? He’s my boy. He’s my little six foot six boy, Eric Trump. And the parents understand that, right? They may be big and strong and older. To a parent, a child is always their boy or always their little beautiful girl, and I know that’s probably politically incorrect.
 They’ll say, “It was terrible what he said about women. Terrible.” But they’re our boy and they’re our girl, and it doesn’t matter how old we get and how old they get, is that a correct statement? And I’m also proud to endorse your next Republican Senator from Minnesota, a man that I’ve known, a man that is tough and smart, a man that’s running against somebody that’s never done a damn thing in the Senate, Mr. Jason Lewis.
 And Jason did a great job in Congress. Congressman Lewis, thank you very much, and thank you for putting up with all of this stuff because I’ll tell you, it’s going to be nasty. It’s going to be nasty. They’re going to make up stories about you. They’re going to say things that’s going to want to make your wife say, “Why did I marry this guy?” Just say, “Don’t worry about it. It’s just another phony story.” Thank you very much Mr. and Mrs. Lewis. Jason, thank you.
 And Jason, they can say that about Tom Cotton. He’s too perfect, this guy. He can’t say… They can’t say it about you, Tom. Anyway, good luck Jason. Do well. And I don’t know why, but with all of the great people I just introduced, for tonight, maybe this is the most important person, because I turned on a very good show in the morning. Fox and friends. They treat us great. I just want fairness. What a great group. Ainsley and Steve, and by the way, Brian has gotten a lot better, right?
 Brian was a seven, and he’s getting close to 10 territory, and Steve has been so great, and Ainsley’s just incredible. And sometimes, Pete Hegseth gets on there for the [inaudible 01:15:02] And how good does Jessie Waters do? How good? Right? Just some really great people. And again, Tucker’s been very good I have to say. He’s been good. Smart. He’s been great. Tucker, and the legendary Sean Hannity. Great. Number one. Number one show. Sean’s got the number one show. And Laura Ingraham is knocking them out of the park, Laura.
 And you go over, Maria Bartiromo, and the great Lou Dobbs. How good are they? Lou Dobbs. And many more. And many more. How about Greg? Greg used to hate me. Now, he’s good. Oh, we can’t forget… We can’t forget Judge Jeanine. I would be in such trouble if I forgot Judge Jeanine. No, these are… And there are many more. I just… Look, I’m just rattling some names off, but they’re just terrific people. They’re terrific people. But a man that I have to really say something very special about…
 So I’m watching Fox and Friends early in the morning, very early in the 6:00 slot, because I’m out of there pretty good, and I see a handsome young man named Bob Kroll, Cops For Trump. And he’s talking about this lousy mayor they’ve got. Now, he didn’t quite say that, but I say it. He’s talking about this lousy mayor that won’t let the cops, the police, the law enforcement… My father always used to say, “Son…” And he meant it to. “Never say cops. It’s disrespectful. Say police officer.” I said, “Okay Pop.”
 But honestly, the truth is with time, I love you guys whether you’re cops, police officers, law enforcement. I’ll call you whatever you want. It doesn’t matter. You are so great, so respected. You don’t even know how much our public loves you. You don’t know it. You don’t know it. You don’t know it. But I see this guy, and I don’t know if he’s done a lot of television before, but he was very effective and very good. And he was saying how the police aren’t being allowed to take care of this rally, and yet with President Obama and Bush and all these people, they were fine, fine.
 Everybody comes. They fall asleep at a rally. But they weren’t allowed to do the job for us, and they went wild. So what I want to do… Go home to Mommy. Mommy says, “I saw you on television tonight. I love Trump. Don’t you ever do that again.” “Yes Mom. Yes Mom.” But the job he did before the election, I came right here to Minnesota, and I pledged to address this really important issue, and it’s the issue of law enforcement. And when I saw this man, this great gentleman on television pouring out his guts, pouring out his heart… I don’t know him.
 He knows I’ve been good to law enforcement. He knows I’ve been good to, as my father would say, “The police.” He knows I love the cops. He knows that, and so does everyone else. I mean, it’s so many shirts, so many red shirts, and there are plenty of people here without the red shirts, and I want to just tell you, the respect that we have for law enforcement is unbound. It’s unbound. Come up here. Bob, come up.
 [inaudible 01:19:54] Say something.
 What can I say after that? Tune in to Fox, 10:15 tonight. Shannon Bream, they asked us on. How can you thank this guy for everything he’s done for law enforcement? Wonderful president.
 Thank you fellas. I’ll see you later. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Great people. Thank you. What a group. I think your very weak mayor made a mistake when he took them on. As you know, for many years, leaders in Washington brought large numbers of refugees to your state from Somalia without considering the impact on schools and communities and taxpayers. I promised you that as president, I would give local communities a greater say in refugee policy, and put in place enhanced vetting and responsible immigration controls.
 And I’ve done that. Since coming into office, I have reduced refugee resettlement by 85%, and as you know, maybe especially in Minnesota, I kept another promise. I issued an executive action, making clear that no refugees will be resettled in any city or any state without the express written consent of that city or that state. So speak to your mayor. You should be able to decide what is best for your own cities and for your own neighborhoods, and that’s what you have the right to do right now. And believe me, no other president would be doing that.
 If Democrats were ever to seize power, they would open the floodgates to unvetted, uncontrolled migration at levels you have never seen before. Do you think you have it bad now? You would never have seen anything like what they want to do. But in the Trump administration, we will always protect American families first, and that has not been done in Minnesota. We’ve also implemented the strongest screening and vetting mechanisms ever put into place. We are keeping terrorists, criminals and extremists the hell out of our country. And I want to thank the country of Mexico. The president of Mexico has been incredible. We have now, 27,000 Mexican soldiers. They’re great, and they’re tough, and they are now protecting our border, and those numbers have gone down like this. Thank you Mr. President. We will not make the mistakes made in European countries, that allow a violent ideology to take root in our country, on our shores. We’re not going to allow it to happen. And as you all know, to protect our citizens from those who would do harm to us, I instituted a very controversial, very hard to get, travel ban on some of the world’s most dangerous countries.
 And the other day, one of the fake news reporters in the back said… They were talking about the travel ban, and they said, “Well you know, the president has lost in court.” They said, “Where?” “On the travel ban.” And he’s right. I lost, and then I lost at the appellate division, and then I won at the United States Supreme Court. Right? And he knew that, but he said I lost on the… And he was right. I lost, and then I lost again, but then I won, and we have the travel ban. But instead of saying, “He lost, and then he lost at the appellate, and then he won at the United States Supreme Court,” he said, “He lost on the travel ban.”
 These are very dishonest people. Do you understand that? Very dishonest people. In the Republican party, we believe that those who seek to join our society must embrace our values, honor our history, and love our people. Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities, which release dangerous criminal aliens into the heart of your communities, and we’re not letting it happen anymore. Republicans believe American cities should be sanctuaries for Americans, not for criminal aliens. My administration is taking historic action to secure the border. We have reduced illegal border crossings by over 60% since May, and we are building the wall faster than anyone ever anticipated it could be built. And this is a serious wall. You’ve all seen it. It’s going up rapidly, and you think that was easy? I had every Democrat in Congress fighting me, fighting me, fighting me. I had a lot of the rhinos fighting me. They say, “See, he’s not getting it built. He’s not getting…” Let me tell you. You have every Democrat fighting you.
 We took it from here, and we took it from there, and we took it from all over the place, and we got that thing. That’s the biggest patchwork of financing you’ve ever seen, and that sucker is going up, and it is the finest, it is the strongest, it’s largely 30 feet tall, which is the maximum height that they wanted. I went to the Border Patrol, and I sat down with 15 representatives of the Border Patrol, and I said, “What do you want? What’s your ideal?” I actually said, “I want to give you the Rolls Royce,” and they killed me for that.
 They said, “It’s not an American made product.” Yeah, they happened to be right. No, they’re right about that one. They’re actually right there, Tom. But I said, “I want to give you the Rolls Royce of walls. Tell me.” And they told me everything, and then we built some alternative walls. We built all different types. We built about seven of them, and then we had climbers come in. The one that worked the best was the one we’re building. It also, unfortunately… The bad news, it’s also the most expensive. But we got it for the right price. We got it for the right price.
 It’s steel, it’s hardened concrete, it’s deep, it’s high, it’s a thing of beauty. And it’s going to keep bad people out of our country. That’s what it’s going to do. And the Democrats knew this. Most of the Democrats four years ago, they wanted a wall. Now all of a sudden, they don’t want a wall. You know why they don’t want a wall? Because I want it. That’s the only reason. And I just thought of it a year ago. I said, “Man, this could’ve been so much easier.” All I had to do is say, “We don’t want a wall,” and they would’ve given me all the financing I wanted for the wall. What was I thinking? We’re not going to build a wall, and they would have forced me to build it. I would’ve… It’s true. Under this administration, we are also ending the-
 … this administration. We are also ending the endless wars. We have to do it, folks. We have to do it. We have totally defeated the ISIS caliphate, and I did that in rather quick time if you remember, because we have the greatest fighting machine, now. When I came in and was totally depleted. We have great generals, we have great warfighters, and they did it so fast.
 I flew to Iraq, I met with the generals, right? I met with the generals. I said, “I hear it’s going to take a year to two years.” “Sir, we can do it in two weeks.” I said, “What?” “They don’t let us fight, sir. They don’t let us fight. We want to fight. They don’t let us fight.” I said, “I let you fight.” I said, “How come if they say it’s going to take anywhere from a year to two years, you say you can do it so quickly?” He said, “Sir, we’re going to hit them from the front. We’re going to hit them from the back. We’re going to hit them from the sides, from underground, from overground. We going to hit the hell out of them.” And they did. And we won very quickly.
 But from now on, we want to fight where it is to the benefit of the United States of America, not to the benefit of other countries. And we will only fight to win. We’re only going to fight to win. We don’t fight to win. We don’t fight to win. The Turks have been fighting with the Kurds for two centuries, and Turkey, as you know, is a NATO ally. But I’ve been rough on them.
 We’ve defeated 100% of that ISIS caliphate, and no longer have any troops in the area. We don’t have any troops. The troops have been pulled out. Where Turkey is carrying out now a very tough campaign against the Kurds, get them out. So Turkey is right now waging a very tough campaign against the Kurds. We got along with the Kurds, and we helped the Kurds. And don’t forget they’re also fighting for their land. You know that. But they’re fighting.
 So we have three choices. You’re ready? Here are the three choices. We don’t have any soldiers there because we’ve left. We won. We left. Take a victory, United States. We left. Take a victory, take a victory. Bring our troops back home.
 I told this story yesterday, I have to sign letters, it’s the hardest thing I have to do. I sign letters, “Dear Mr. and Mrs. Smith from Arkansas. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Jones from Alabama. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Somebody from some great state, I’m sorry to inform you, your son has been killed in combat. I’m so sorry.” And every letter is individually done because sometimes the parents, they’re grieving, and they get together with other parents, and I don’t want to see that it’s like the same letter. So we do different letters. It’s the hardest thing I have to do. Hardest thing.it’s the hardest thing I have … I was telling Tom Cotton, it’s the hardest thing that I have to do. And I sign those letters, and it just, it breaks your heart.
 And by the way, there’s a time to fight. Nobody fights harder than I do. But there’s a time, and there’s not necessarily a time. But I send these letters out, quite a few. And sometimes I send letters out, it’s called blue on green, where we’re teaching people how to fight and then they turn the gun on our soldiers and shoot them in the back. And that’s the hardest thing for a parent. I have all of them. I know everyone. That’s the hardest thing for a parent when they get notification, because they learn how their child has died. When the so-called people that were teaching how to fight turn the gun on them, and shoot. We’ve had a lot of that, a lot of it in Afghanistan, more than we’ve ever had proportionately before. It’s a horrible, horrible thing. But I have to sign these letters.
 And sometimes I go out to a place, Dover Air Force Base, it’s a very tough experience. Mike Pence goes, I go, other people go, Tom Cotton goes. We go out there, and we meet the parents and the families, the wives, the children, the sisters, the brothers. We meet them, and we talked to them, and their son or daughter is being flown in from some far away place in a coffin, and these things are just impossible. I don’t know how parents can do it, even. And I’ll meet them. And we have a particular Colonel, that’s all he does. So good. So professional. That’s what he does. He said, “I greet the dead, sir. I greet the dead.”
 And what happens is this big incredible machine flies in, this tremendous cargo plane, and it flies in so powerful, so big. I’ll be talking to some of the parents, and they’ll act like they’re fine. I said, “How are you doing?” “We’re fine, sir. We’re fine. We’re really good.” I say, “That’s great.” And I’ll tell the Colonel, I’ll say, “Colonel, I think they’re doing great.” “No sir, they’re not going to do great. You’ll see.” And I didn’t know what he was talking about, this is the first time.
 Then we went outside to the runway, and this incredible machine is flying in, and it lands, and it comes over, and it pulls up, and we have military guards, we have incredible talented musicians that do this. That’s what they do. What happens is that door opens up, and the Colonel told me, he said, “Sir, when that door opens up, those same people that you think are okay, do things that you’ll never see. You will hear sounds like you’ve never heard.” That’s what he does.
 I saw that door open up with a coffin with a flag over it. The door was opened, and these beautiful soldiers, five or six on each side, lifting the coffin and walking down the runway, the plank, they call it, off this cargo plane. And I see parents make sounds, that were just 20 minutes ago absolutely fine, make sounds, scream and cry like you’ve never seen before. The Colonel was telling me that, “Sir, you’ll see things that you’ve never seen before. A mother who was fine 20 minutes ago, you think, breaking the military line and jumping off, and then jumping onto a coffin of her son or her daughter, jumping on, on top of the flowers, on top of the American flag.” I’ve seen this.
 Then I have all these people that want to stay. They want to stay. And I don’t want to stay. We were supposed to be in Syria for 30 days. We’ve now been there for 10 years. We were supposed to be in Afghanistan for a short period of time. We’re now going to be there for close to 19 years. It’s time to bring them home. It’s time to bring them home. It’s true. Time to bring them home. We’ve done our job, we’ve defeated everyone that we’re supposed to defeat. And now we are, we are policing, we are now policing. That’s what we’re doing. We’re policing. And that, as I said, no more respect for the police, but these are military people, and those are police, but we are now policing. We’re not fighting, we’re policing. And you know what? After all of these years … One other story, and I have to tell you. I go to Walter Reed on Friday, and I do it quite often. I gave out five Purple Hearts. And I meet people that are so beautiful, so amazing. I met five warriors, and one was so badly hurt, with the loss of arms and a leg, another one … they’re just very, very devastated. But these are great, great people. And I gave out the Purple Heart. And I see the parents, and I have to say, Walter Reed, I want to just say, the doctors there, the job they do, you know, you hear so many complaints about doctors and about the vets, and the vets’ care, and nobody’s done better. We got choice for the vets. We did things for the vets that nobody thought would be possible.
 But I saw these young men, and I gave them their Purple Hearts. And their parents were there crying. And one of them was so amazing. I said, “What’s your problem?” “Sir, my face was blown apart. My nose was absolutely just blown apart.” He said, “Sir, it’s incredible.” And I looked at him, I said, “That’s the most beautiful nose I’ve ever seen. What do you mean?” He said, “A doctor worked on my face for 10 hours in the field. He said there were a thousand fragments.” Now I don’t know if that’s right, but well, a lot. He meant a lot. “He said there were a thousand fragments. He rebuilt my nose with glue. He glued the bones together. He rebuilt my nose.” I say, “You have the most beautiful nose I’ve ever seen,” and it’s true. And his father came over to me, he said, “Sir,” father was crying, he said, “Sir, honestly, my son looks better now.” He said, “My son did not have a good look. He knows. Now look at it, it’s beautiful, it’s beautiful.”
 But these doctors at Walter Reed, and these Army, and Marine, and the medical doctors, they are unbelievably great people. And they see sights that you and I hopefully will never see. They see things that nobody will ever see, and there’s nobody like them. And I have to give a shout out to those people, there’s nobody like them. So in the case of Turkey, and Syria, and the Kurds, we could send in a thousand troops for a military conflict with Turkey. No, you don’t want to do that. We could hit Turkey very hard financially. Or we could mediate a deal between Turkey and the Kurds. I like that. You know? Let’s mediate a deal. But remember they’ve been fighting each other for hundreds of years, and we were artificially put there, in this case by President Obama. So we did our job. We knocked out.
 And I’ll tell you another thing, we have to be treated fairly. We have to be treated fairly. We’re not treated fairly by other nations. We captured many, many ISIS fighters. Most of them came from Europe. They came from Germany. They came from France. They came from all of these countries. And we called them, I called them myself in many cases, I said, “Take your fighters.” They said, “We don’t want them. You take them.” I said, “No, no, no, we did you a big favor. They’re citizens of Germany. They’re citizens of France. They’re citizens of these various countries in Europe. Take your fighters.” “We don’t want them, sir. We don’t want them.’ And I said, “How unfair are we treated? We do them a great favor, and they won’t take the fighters.”
 So we’re doing some things that are pretty amazing. Every once in a while you have to change course, and do what you have to do. The United States has spent $8 trillion in the Middle East. We’ve lost thousands of brave soldiers, and tens of thousands of terribly wounded people, great people, their lives will never be the same. These wars produced only chaos and bloodshed. And all of the blood and treasure we sacrificed, made the Middle East, really it’s less safe, it’s less stable, and it’s less secure. And I say it all the time. The single greatest mistake our country made in its history was going in to the quicksand of the Middle East. We spent $8 trillion and lost thousands of lives. And by the way, the other side, we can talk about that, lost millions of lives. What did we do?
 So we’re going to pull them out, and we’re pulling people out, and we’re trying to make good deals, and we’re going to bring our soldiers back home, and we may need them for something else, and they’ll be ready. Previous administrations lust for regime change, and also put historic Christian communities in vastly more danger than they were before we started. They are some of the biggest victims of these power vacuums and reckless foreign adventures. The Christians, the Christians. And we work hard with the Christians. We have tremendous evangelical support. We work hard with the Christians.
 So we’re slowly getting out of the Middle East. We’re doing it carefully. And we’re rebuilding our military like we have never rebuilt our military before. When I came into office, a very prominent general told me, because it looked like we could have a big conflict with someone, said, “Sir, we have no ammunition.” We had old planes. We had planes that were so old, they didn’t fly. We had people going to the desert, the plane graveyards, airplane graveyards, picking up parts. I never want to hear a President of the United States hear those words again. I never want to have a President hear the words, “Sir, we have no ammunition.” Think of that. Think of that.
 Now, thanks to more than two and a half trillion dollar worth of investment in our military, we have more ammunition, more missiles, more rockets, more tanks, more fighter jets, and more of everything else than we’ve ever had before. And we have no choice. You look around the world, and we have no choice, unfortunately. And the Democrats want to dismantle our military. After years of building up other countries, we are finally building up our country. That’s what we have to do.
 We’re replacing the disaster known as NAFTA with the brand new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, USMCA, a giant victory for our farmers, ranchers, workers in Minnesota. Congress should pass USMCA immediately. We hope that Nancy Pelosi can start thinking about passing some legislation instead of thinking about nonsense.
 And to protect our industrial backbone, I placed tariffs on foreign aluminum and foreign steel. I’m also fighting back against years of chronic trade abuse from China. And the supply chain of China, which was unbreakable, is now breaking wide open. And they understand that. And I don’t blame China for what’s taken place over the last 25 years. I blame the people that led our country that let that happen, where hundreds of billions of dollars a year was taken from our country to build China. It’s not China’s fault.
 In the previous administration, they put our nation’s natural resources under lock and key, including thousands and thousands of acres in a place called Superior National Forest. Last year, I traveled to Duluth and announced that we would be ending this injustice, reopening Superior National Forest, and restoring mineral exploration for the iron ore mines of Minnesota. Tremendous jobs. And now the iron range is back in business. The last time I was here, a man came up to me, he said, “Sir, President Obama took our heart away, took our life away.’ I’ll never forget it. A man, strong guy, had tears in his eyes. He said, “You gave us back our life,” because they took it away from him. We gave it back. Best iron ore there is anywhere.
 My administration is also fighting the Democrat socialist healthcare agenda that would obliterate Medicare. Republicans will protect Medicare, and we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. And for those of you that have private healthcare, health insurance, 180 million people, they are going to end it, obliterate it, and most people are thrilled with it. We are going to leave it. You’re going to have your plan the way you want it. And there’s no plan like those plans.
 Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb, right up to the moment of birth. That is why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, and blatant Washington corruption. The Republican Party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and it’s the party of the American Dream.
 For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America. You remember that? Gee, I’m sorry, I’m so sorry. Now you have a President who’s standing up for America, we are standing up for Minneapolis, and we are standing up for the great state of Minnesota.
 We begin this political campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda, and the only positive vision for America. We begin this campaign with right now almost three years of perhaps the most successful administration in the history of our country. Together, we will help millions more citizens from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity.
 With your help, we will reelect, and we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair, and lawful system of immigration. We will enact trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase Made in the USA. We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer, and ending the AIDS epidemic in America within 10 years. Nobody thought that could be done. Going to be done. We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. And above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one America. We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work, and the sanctity of life.
 We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we live by the words of our great national motto, In God We Trust. We stand on the shoulders of American Patriots who built this country into the greatest nation ever to exist in history. Our ancestors crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered science, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism, and put a man on the face of the moon. Proud citizens like the people of Minnesota helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people.
 With your help, your devotion, your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of Minnesota, I will tell you this with great certainty, the best is yet to come.
 And just in concluding, together we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Minnesota. Thank you.
 Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. Wow. I will never, ever let you down, that I can tell you. Amazing. And I want to thank Manchester and New Hampshire, they’re very special. You remember those primaries? That primary came around and remember what happened during the primary? Trump should come in third or fourth, and we came in easily number one, and that was the beginning. That was an easy one. I want to thank you all. This is incredible and it’s great to be back in a state that I love with thousands of hardworking Patriots, who are the heart and soul of America. And that’s what you are.
 We’re actually here today to officially launch our campaign to win the great state of New Hampshire in 2020. And I saw some fake polls put out by the fake news media, and it said that I’m tied with three of the other candidates, the Democrats, I’m tied in New Hampshire. I don’t think so. One of them has a rally, he’s got 100 people. So this holds 12,000 we’re full. And we could fill it up four times at least. We could fill it up four times. But I just want to thank you all. I just think it’s going to be a tremendous four years. We’re going to have a tremendous four years. Can you believe it? We only have a little more than a year to go, where it all started, right? The greatest political movement in the history of our country.
 And even though we had fake witch hunts on our back and all the other things that we had to go through, we have taken this big beautiful ship, and it’s being turned around very quickly. Three years ago, we campaigned across the country on a pledge to make America great again. And that’s exactly what we’ve done. I think we can honestly say it’s the greatest slogan in the history of politics in America. Make America great again. So if you don’t mind, the other candidates go, they spend millions and millions of dollars on this question that I’m going to ask you. They spend millions. You remember the first slogan from our opponent? That’s right, neither do I. Neither does anybody. Nobody remembers. The only thing I remember is the first night I went out after I heard it and I said, see, it’s all about her. And they immediately changed it after spending like a million dollars. It’s all about her. That didn’t work out too well. That slogan wasn’t too good. So we have to do this. We have to make a decision.
 Do you give up the greatest slogan in the history of politics in our country? Make America great again, right? Do we give up make America great again for a new slogan, because look, our country is doing great. We are doing very well with China despite the fact that they want to have you believe in the contrary. All you have to do is say China, how you doing? They’re not too happy, they’re not too happy. They’re losing millions of jobs. The tariffs are working, and they’re eating the tariffs by the way. There’s no price increase. You know, you gotta talk to these people. The fake news. But do we give up?
 And by the way, the biggest beneficiary, you know who have been great? Our great farmers have been so incredible because they’ve been targeted by China, and frankly they’ve been targeted for a long time, including by incompetent politicians that have run this country for a long time. So we’re making up for a lot of lost ground. But do we give up make America great for keep America great? Keep America great. Okay, you ready? Ready? I love this because it’s free. And we have all the time in the world, right? Is there anything better than a Trump rally? What about a sleepy Joe Biden rally? Well, he’s made some beauties. I sort of hope it’s him. I don’t mind any of them. You got Pocahontas is rising. We got Kamala. Kamala is falling. You got Beto. Beto is like gone. All right, we’ll see what happens. Whoever it is, I don’t know that it matters, but whoever it is different, different people. But I don’t know, I think sleepy Joe may be able to limp across the finish line.
 But today they announced that they’re going to cut way back on his appearances because he is such a disaster, they’re going to have fewer appearances. You’ve heard that, right? They’re going to cut way back on his appearances. Can you believe it? If I ever did that, it would be over. The fake news would get us, but we don’t let them get us and it is fake. And today the deputy editor of the New York times was demoted. Isn’t that beautiful? All the news that is not fit to print. All the news, the fake failing New York Times. It’s really we, it’s not me. We’re doing it together. They came from the Hills, they came from the mountains, from the rivers, they came from all over the place. And they showed up and they voted like nobody’s seen before. And it was 306 to 223, remember? 306.
 And we won Wisconsin and they said, “Oh, we never thought of that.” Got to think about those things. And we won Michigan. And now we have a lot of car companies coming into Michigan, and we have a lot of great farming events happening, really big in Wisconsin. And we have incredible things going on in Pennsylvania. We just opened up a $10 billion plant. We have many of them going up. Many of them, a lot of jobs. In Louisiana, an LNG plant $10 billion. Could never have happened, could never have happened. Pennsylvania would have never happened. They wouldn’t have allowed him to frack. So they would’ve never been able to build it. But what a place that is, it will be open in a little more than a year, but I have to make a decision. It’s a big decision. Do we give up the greatest theme, phrase, logo, whatever you want to call it, in the history of politics, risky, for a brand new one because make America great again. We’re really sort of there, and we have a little time left. And now we have a group of socialists or communists, could be. They’re not far away. The fake news will hit me on that. How dare he say that? But they’re not far away, right? They’re not far away. 95%. Does anybody want to pay 95% taxes? I don’t think so. But I’m not going to go into their plan because as far as I’m concerned, the green new deal is a beautiful thing. No, it’s a beautiful thing. We want it to continue onward until about a month before the election. I will let them have it like you’ve never heard before. I don’t want it to change. Too early.
 It’s like Elizabeth Warren. I did the Pocahontas thing. I hit her really hard, and it looked like she was down and out, but that was too long ago. I should’ve waited. But don’t worry. We will revive it. It can be revived. It can be rewritten, right? It will be revived and it can be revived very easily and very quickly. And we’re going to have some fun in the state of New Hampshire. Now what do we do, ready? Let me have first make America great again, then keep America great, right? Just applaud like crazy for the one you want to use for this campaign. And there’s a possibility we’ll use both. There’s a possibility we’ll use both ’cause I hate like hell to give up the one. Is it a possibility we’ll use both? Maybe one a little bit less. Are you ready? So we’ll start make America great again, and then keep America. Are you ready? Who’s in favor of the campaign theme being make America great again?
 Who’s in favor of our theme being keep America great? Oh, wait a minute. This is your hat. I was going to keep it actually. Thank you. So that’s really been the reaction. I’ve done this before. Big crowds, and it really is keep America great because we have these socialists want to take it away from us. They want to take it away. Because until a couple of days ago, and that’ll catch up very quickly, we have no choice. By the way, I never said China was going to be easy, but it’s not tough and they want to make a deal. We just spoke to them yesterday. They want to make a deal. They want to make a deal. They have to make a deal.
 And you know what? It’d be wonderful to make a deal. I don’t think we’re ready to make a deal. We’re taking in billions of dollars in tariffs. And again, China’s devaluing their currency. They’re pouring out money, the prices haven’t gone up. So that means we’re taking in billions of dollars. We’re not paying for it. And ultimately their devaluations are going to hurt them very badly. They want to make a deal, and they should want to make a deal. But when you listen to the fake news, look at how many there are. I mean, I actually had something today. I had something today. Are we sure that we’re in New Hampshire? You know, you have a reputation. I mean, I know it’s not true ’cause I know you too well. You have a reputation of being very stayed, very, very elegant, stayed, incredible people. You’re not acting it tonight, and that’s good. That’s a good thing.
 Wow. We love our country. We have enthusiasm for our country. That’s what it is. Before the election, our factories were closing. Hey, who knows it better than you? You’re like central casting for the closing of factories. Our jobs were vanishing. Our military was totally depleted. When I took over, our military was sad. We weren’t flying half of our planes, they were old. They were tired. Our equipment was tired. Our people weren’t tired, though. Our people weren’t tired. But everything we had, it was depleted. Now we’ve rebuilt our military like never before. And all made in the USA, just so you know. And our nation was weakened at home and disrespected abroad. They don’t disrespect us anymore, folks.
 I got NATO to pay an extra hundred billion dollars. They weren’t paying. They were delinquent. Many nations were, except for seven. Many nations weren’t paying what they were supposed to be paying, so we’re supposed to protect them. They kill us on trade. They have all sorts of barriers and everything else. The taxes are really unfair. The tariffs were ridiculous, what they do to us in Europe. And then we protect them. Then they don’t pay, and I say, “I’m sorry folks, you have to pay. You have to pay.” They were delinquent, they were delinquent. And my biggest fan is secretary General Stoltenberg from NATO. He said until president Trump came along, we were going, boom. They would’ve been finished very quickly, but I’m tired of paying for other nations anyway, I have to be honest with you.
 Today, our nation is stronger than ever before. We’re now stronger than ever before. You saw we ended the Iran disaster. How about that? We paid them a $150 billion. $1.8 billion in cash. Cash, cash, cash. We got nothing. And they also want to make a deal. China wants to make a deal, and I will tell you Iran wants to make a deal because the sanctions are not good for them. They are not happy. So we’ll see how it all turns out. But it’s in good hands. It’s in good hands. The United States right now has the hottest economy anywhere in the world. We’re rebuilding that awesome might that we were just talking about. Our United States armed forces. America is working again. America is winning again, and America is respected again, respected like never before. They respect us again, and you see it. You know, a recent poll came out where it showed that president Obama was more popular in Germany and other places than I am.
 And I said, of course he’s more popular. He’s not demanding that they pay for their protection that we provide. He’s not doing that. I’m doing that. And in fact, if I was the most popular, I’m not doing my job right. So true. We’ve created over six million new jobs since the election. If I would have said that during the campaign, those people back there would have been headlines, headlines. More than seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps. Since my election, the number of new businesses starting in the great state of New Hampshire has skyrocketed by almost 25%.
 And you can’t really go by my election. You gotta go by November 9th because the markets have gone through the roof since November 9th. That’s the day after I won the election. So I won the election. The markets went up thousands of points. Things started happening. You started doing things that you would’ve never. Even though I didn’t get sworn in until January 20th, but they refused to do that. And let me tell you, if for some reason I wouldn’t have won the election, these markets would have crashed. That’ll happen even more so in 2020. See the bottom line is I know you like me and this room is a love fest, I know that. But you have no choice but to vote for me because your 401ks down the tubes. Everything’s going to be down the tubes, so whether you love me or hate me, you got to vote for me. I had a businessman the other day, one of the most successful guys in the country. I’ve never liked him, never liked him. He never liked me, I never liked him. I see him in the white house. I said, “What are you doing here?” He said, I’m working to make sure you get elected.” I said, “You’ve got to be kidding. You don’t like me. I don’t like you. What the hell is this all about?” He said, “That’s right. We’ve had our differences. I haven’t liked you, but to be honest with you, Mr. President, I have no choice.” I said, “You’re right. You’re right.”
 First thing I’ve ever heard him say that I agreed with, he’s got no choice. He got no choice. Unemployment in New Hampshire has reached the lowest rate in actually 31 years. But within a very short period of time, it will be the lowest rate in the history of our country. Think of that. You have the best unemployment, you have the most successful state in the history of your state, and in the history of our country. And then you’re going to vote for somebody else? Oh, great.
 Let’s vote for Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren. We have the best numbers we’ve ever had. Let’s vote for somebody else. I don’t think that’s going to happen, folks. I don’t think that’s going to happen. Only with fixed poles does that happen? Unemployment for African Americans. You’ve heard me say this many times, and I’m very proud of it. Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans have all reached their lowest rates ever recorded in the history of our county. Wages are rising quickly. Remember when I used to say people have been working two and three jobs making less money than they made 21 years ago? I used to say it all the time. Now I can say for the first time in 20 years, wages are rising, and you know who’s the biggest beneficiary? Blue collar workers. My administration is fighting to expand opportunity for citizens of every background and every race, religion, color, and creed. Very important. Because we are all Americans. We all share the same home. We all share the same heart. We all share the same dreams. We are all children of the same Almighty God. But at the very moment when our country should be coming together to enjoy these wonderful blessings, the radical Democrats are trying to tear America apart. They vilify anyone who doesn’t share their extreme views. They slander our law enforcement heroes. You see what they’re doing with our police that we love. You see what they’re doing. Has anyone ever seen anything like the water being thrown on New York’s finest? Have you ever seen? And I know a lot of New York’s finest. They’re not happy, they’re not happy. And they are great people. These are great, great, proud people. For that to be allowed to happen is a disgrace.
 They view everybody as fascist and Nazis. They used the term Nazi. This was a term, you couldn’t even use it. Now they use it like on a regular basis. Nazi. He’s a Nazi. Think of that. He’s a Nazi. You couldn’t use it. Now they use it. They accuse our heroic border agents of running concentration camps, and they do an incredible job. And the Democrats don’t want to fix the loopholes or asylum. They do an incredible job, our border agents. And they looked down upon the hardworking citizens who truly make our country run. But while the Democrats rage and resist … That guy’s got a serious weight problem. Go home, start exercising. Get him out of here please. You got a bigger problem than I do. Got a bigger problem than all of us. Now he goes home and his mom says, “What the hell have you just done?” We are continuing our incredible movement, the greatest political movement in the history of our country. There’s never been a movement like this. Never. Our movement is built on love, and it is, and we love our family. We love our faith. We love our flag, and we love our freedom, and that’s what it’s about. And add to that the fact that we love our neighbors and we love our-
 … the fact that we love our neighbors and we love our country. Together we are all united by one fundamental principal. A nation’s first duty must always be to its own citizens, it’s own. We’ve got to take care of our own. You haven’t heard that from a politician or a political leader in a long time. It’s called America First. It’s America First.
 We’re thrilled to be joined tonight by many tremendous Republican leaders and great friends of mine, a man who’s doing an incredible job as your governor, because I want to take 100% of the credit for the incredible turnaround of New Hampshire, and I remember it not so long ago, things were not looking good. People were leaving, a lot of bad things were happening, but we have to give him a lot of credit. He’s been a great governor, Chris Sununu, with a great father too, great father.
 With a great father… His father was tough. Chris, your father was so tough. He was for somebody else in the primaries, and then one by one… I won here, I won there, I won there. And then when I won his father got on and I said, “Oh, this guy kills me. He’s so tough,” and he said, “President Trump will be the greatest of all time. I said, “What happened? What happened?” He went from being the toughest critic to the best there is. So I want to say hello to your father, okay Chris? You’ll tell him. Great guy. What a family. What a family. Thank you for Chris.
 New Hampshire Senate Republican leader, Chuck Morse. Chuck. Thanks, Chuck.
 New Hampshire House Republican leader, Dick Hinch. Thank you, Dick. Thank you, Dick. Great job.
 A man who was with me right from the beginning. In fact, he had a meeting at his house. His house has never been the same. His house is a disaster now. Like somebody said he just sold it. But you know what? Because of the Trump economy, I’ll bet he sold it for a big, big, fat, beautiful profit. Where is Steve? Steve Stepanek and his wife, who’s incredible. Did you make a lot of money on the house?
 We destroyed the house. This was the beginning. He held some kind of a meeting for me, and he has a nice house, but literally hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people showed up and they destroyed his house. It’s never been the same. No wonder you sold it. They finally gave up, and that was four years ago. Anyway, thank you very much both for being here. I appreciate it. What great people. Thank you, Steve. Great job. And I hope the buyer of his house didn’t hear that little… Steve. I hope the buyer didn’t hear what I just said about your house. He’ll cancel… That’s all right. You’ll sell it for more to somebody else, don’t worry.
 Republican party chair, Ronna McDaniel. You know, Ronna headed up Michigan, and for many, many years nobody won Michigan as a Republican. But I used to complain, I’d go there and I’d say “They’re stealing your car business.” I’d go for years. In fact, five or six years before I even thought about running, for whatever reason, they named me Man of the Year in Michigan. I said, “How come?” I didn’t even understand it myself, but I was named Man of the Year. I wasn’t even political. That was years before I did this. But I was always complaining that our car business is being stolen. I mean, it’s sort of obvious, right? Mexico now has 32% of our car business. It all left the state of Michigan. We are bringing it back at a level that nobody’s ever seen before, our car business.
 But I went to Michigan and my opponent was told that the Republicans, no way you can win Michigan, or Wisconsin, that you just can’t. And we had a campaign manager named Ronna McDaniel, and Ronna wouldn’t stop. “Sir, can you be here next week?” I say, “I don’t know.” Then I leave and she said, “Sir, can you come back in three days?” I said, “I don’t know.” Then I do it and she said, “How about another time?” And then on election night she said, “Sir,” it was six o’clock the day before the election. In other words, just a short while before the election. She calls me, “Sir, can you be here tonight?” I said “Tonight?” And by the way, you know where I was? I was in New Hampshire. That’s right. She said, “Sir, can you be here tonight?” I said, “Are you sure?”
 I started speaking at one o’clock in the morning. Now it’s election day. We had 32,000 people show up. It was like this. The crowd was just, they want to see things happen in our country. They love our country. It went crazy. I left and I said, “I don’t know why going to lose Michigan. Why would we lose Michigan? Look at this.” The opponent went there with Barack Obama and Michelle Obama and she went there much earlier. Prime time, one o’clock, two o’clock in the morning is not exactly prime time. We had 32,000 and they had a tiny little crowd, and I looked at my people and I said, “I know we’re not supposed to win the great state of Michigan, but I think we’re going to win Michigan” and we won Michigan and we won Wisconsin. We won Wisconsin. Wisconsin was a great victory, and we won Pennsylvania, and we won North Carolina and South Carolina, and we won Florida, and I hate to tell you we should’ve won New Hampshire. That was taken away. New Hampshire was taken away. It was taken away from us, but we should’ve. We did great in New Hampshire. We should’ve won New Hampshire, but that’s okay. I’m not holding it against you because it was not your fault.
 But we had a woman in Michigan and I said, “When it came time to choosing the head of the Republican National Committee,” I said, “Who the hell is that woman up in Michigan that got me to keep coming there and explaining that we can’t continue to lose our car business?” We have 17 companies now coming back in. “Who is that woman?” And it was Ronna. We put her in charge of the Republican National Committee. The job that she has done is incredible. Thank you.
 The same with another man, our campaign manager. He started off as a computer genius, and remember when they used to say that the Hillary Clinton campaign is highly sophisticated, highly… She did a lot of bad things folks. 33,000 emails deleted after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress, 33,000. Remember she said it was about her daughter’s wedding and yoga classes, 33,000, yes. it was disgraceful. I will tell you this, we now have a great attorney general. A fair guy, a great gentleman.
 Another man who’s here tonight is the world’s tallest campaign manager. He is an unbelievable talent. But they were saying about our opponents… I’m not going to mention the name again because we’ll never get it finished here, so I’ll just say my opponent. Is that better? They were saying how sophisticated her campaign was. Except ours was far more sophisticated, and we had a man that did an incredible job. He’s now our campaign manager and he’s one of the tallest human beings I’ve ever seen. His name is Brad Parscale and he is fantastic. It’s nice when you don’t have to look for anybody. You just look over and you see a guy who’s twice as tall as everyone. Great job, Brad. Thank you.
 How we doing, Brad? Good. Doing good. Got great poll numbers. We’ve got great poll numbers in a lot of states, Ohio, Iowa. You know Iowa, every week that they campaign our numbers go up. They’re winning Iowa. We gave them ethanol, which is very important. A lot of things for Iowa, but every week we seem to be going up in Iowa because they’re campaigning in Iowa. Wherever they go, our numbers go up. Somebody’s going to have to explain that one to me someday, but we like it.
 A man who’s a friend of mine who was the greatest mayor in the history of New York City. Stand up, Rudy. Stand up, Rudy. Rudy Giuliani. Man, he did a job in the first year. I’ve never seen anything like it. New York was crime infested. We had problems. We had problems like nobody would believe. Rudy went in there and he did the job and people loved him for it. It wasn’t like, “Oh gee, he’s a horrible person.” People loved Rudy Giuliani. He was a great, great mayor. So thank you, Rudy, for being here.
 The first person that I put on on the campaign, he was driving me wild. He said, “I’m saying you can win, sir. You can win. I’m telling you, you can win.” He loves this state. He’s from this state. He said, “You can win, sir. I’m just telling you.” I had him on for month after month. He’d come drive me crazy. He’d say, “You can win, you can win, you can win.” And finally we said, “Let’s give it a shot.” And I had Corey, I had Hope, I had just a couple of people. We had a rather lean and mean staff. But Corey Lewandowski loves your state, loves New Hampshire. He was the first one that talked about us possibly winning the whole big ballgame. He’s tough and he’s smart and I’m hearing he’s thinking about running for the Senate from New Hampshire. There we go. I think he’d be tough to beat. I’ll tell you one thing, he’ll go into Washington and he’s going to have you in mind. He’s going to do a job if he does do it, so we’ll see what happens. He hasn’t made up his mind yet, but he would be fantastic. I guess it’s something you go back and you talk to your family, you talk to your wife and you make a decision. They’re all saying, “Are you going to support him?” I said, “I don’t know if he’s running.” So Corey, let us know please, if you don’t mind. Let us know.
 Our shared Republican agenda is pro worker, pro jobs, pro family, pro growth, and 100% pro American. For decades and decades the permanent politicians in Washington pursued the very opposite. They sold out our workers. You see it. You know it better than any place. When I talk about the horrors of NAFTA, the horrors of trade deals… I mean, I’m sorry to tell you this, I usually refer to New Hampshire. Nobody took it worse than new England and nobody took it worse than New Hampshire. Now, here’s the good news. I would never let that happen again and Chris will never let that happen again. Is there a doctor, please? Doctor in the house? Thank you. Doctor in the house. Please, doctor, please. Thank you very much. Take your time. Yeah, take your time. Thank you. Take your time, fellas. Plenty of time. You know, people got here two and a half days ago, many of these people in the front, right? Two and a half days ago, a lot of these people, so you can understand. It’s pretty tough. Thank you. Thank you. That’s okay. These are great people. These are great people that love our country, just remember that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Pretty good. Pretty good.
 So our politicians shipped away our jobs, shed our sovereignty, surrendered our dignity, and saddled our nation in one foreign debacle after another, and we’re still here. He just said it. We’re still here, you better believe it, and we’re here stronger than ever before we’re here. But all of that ended the day that I took the oath of office, the American people are in charge of their country again.
 We cut a record number of job-killing regulations that were strangling our country. We cut more regulations in two and a half years than any other president in their full terms. Four years, eight years, or in one case more than that, cut more than anybody. To get relief to working families we passed the largest package of tax cuts and tax reforms in the history of our country. You’re making a lot more money. You’re making a lot more money and you see it and you know it because you see it in your paycheck every week.
 We ended the last administration’s cruel war on American energy and we are delivering a policy of American energy independence like you’ve never seen before. In fact, if you look at the straits where we’re having all of the problems, you look at the straits, number one, they’re not touching our ships, they’re not playing with our ships. They’re taking them from this country, from that country, from that country. But you know what? Very importantly, we have very few ships going there anymore because we don’t need that oil and gas. The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. Every leading Democrat has pledged abolish the American oil, coal, and natural gas industries that are fueling our economic boom. Can you imagine this? We’re sitting on great wealth. They want to take it away from us, and the alternatives don’t have the power. They don’t have the power. They want wind, wind. Wind is oh so beautiful, as long as you don’t have to stare at a windmill and your house goes down in value like to nothing. Steve, if you had a windmill anywhere near your house you would’ve gotten one third of the price you got, Steve. That’s true, by the way. Steve’s too smart to let that happen.
 We won’t let them take it away from you. We are reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that shattered New Hampshire and your factories. They shattered your communities and they shattered American power and American prestige all around the globe. New Hampshire lost one in four manufacturing jobs following NAFTA and China’s entrance into the Organization, two of the worst deals ever in the history of our world, not just our country.
 Election after election, politicians came to your state pretending to have the courage to stand up for the American worker, then they went to Washington and let other countries push them around, and special interests, buy them off and steal your jobs and take your companies. That’s what happened. Me, I don’t care about their campaign contributions. It doesn’t matter to me, folks. We want to do a job. We want to do a great job, and we’re setting records, and you know who’s sending us the money? The small donors. Well, we have big donors, but we have small donors are sending us the money for the election. Pretty amazing. That’s not supposed to happen to a Republican, but it’s happening to this Republican and it’s happening to you.
 Every vow that politicians made was broken, every hope was dashed, and every promise turned into a total betrayal of New Hampshire and of our country. But in this administration, we have something those sell-out politicians could only dream of. It’s called strength and commitment. We don’t play games. We don’t play games. After years and years of building up other countries we are finally building up our country, standing up for our jobs, our workers, and standing up for our dignity. The forgotten men and women of America will never ever be forgotten again. You were forgotten.
 The last administration with sleepy Joe and Obama tried to ram through one of the worst trade deals ever negotiated, worse than NAFTA, worse than WTO. It was called the Trans-Pacific Partnership. It would have been a disaster. TPP would have gutted the American auto industry. It would have been in shambles. Our auto industry is coming back so strong. It would’ve gutted, would’ve destroyed the industry. But in my first week in office I proudly withdrew the United States from that job-destroying catastrophe. We’re imposing beautiful well-placed tariffs, money comes in, on foreign countries that cheat our workers, steal our jobs, and break all the rules, I’m sorry.
 And by the way, they’ve been changing and charging tariffs on us for years. We have countries that charge us 100%, 200%, 297% in the case of Canada with your farm products. We’re not going to stand for it, and man, did we turn things around and we’ve just started. If companies don’t want to pay a tariff, I have one simple solution. Come make your product in America. Come make your product in New Hampshire. Zero tariffs. Zero. No tariff.
 Together we’re restoring this nation’s industrial might and we are doing it with American iron, American aluminum, and American steel. We’re doing it steel. Steel industry is high. They were dumping steel all over. They were destroying our companies. US steel now, all of them, they’re all expanding. the steel industry is back. It’s doing great. We’re opening up mines in Minnesota, the great state of Minnesota. They have magnificent mines that have the best iron ore in the world and President Obama closed them down. Maybe we can get Representative Omar from Minnesota to open it up, but I don’t think so. She’ll open them up. I don’t think so. Representative Omar, that’s another one.
 We’re replacing NAFTA with the brand new USMCA. That’s Mexico and Canada. Great deal. The USMCA will create countless jobs for farmers and manufacturers all across the state. We need Congress to pass the USMCA immediately. We’ll make it a bipartisan deal. We don’t even want credit. The unions benefit. The non-unions benefit. Everybody benefits. It brings it back to fairness and it makes it very hard for our companies to leave our countries, go to Mexico or Canada. We lose all our jobs. We lose all our taxes. We end up with empty factories and plants. It makes it almost impossible. We’re not going to have that. That was my one rule that I had to have. It’s going to be very, very hard for companies to do that.
 I’ve also taken the toughest ever action to stand up to China’s chronic trade abuses. Earlier this month, the US government officially labeled China for the first time ever a currency manipulator, another promise kept. While others allowed China to freely loot the US economy, $500 billion a year, not million, not million, billion with a B. We’ve made it clear that the theft of American jobs and American wealth is over. Yet today, the Wall Street Journal editorial board and some others continue to publish foolish articles that demonstrate that they understand nothing about trade or business. Nothing. They advocate only economic surrender. They actually say, “Go to China, take off the tariffs, make a deal.” I lose all the cards we take off the tariffs. We don’t have any cards. Think of it. They say “Go to Europe.”.
 By the way, the European union is worse than China, just smaller. It treats us horribly. Barriers, tariffs, taxes, and we let them come in. It’s worse than China. Many of us come from there. I do. That’s what it’s got going. That’s about it. They treat us really badly, and many others, many, many others. India tariffs us probably higher than any nation anywhere in the world. We have tariffs of 100% on products and much more than that. India.
 So we’re working on all of them. I called Prime Minister Modi. I said, “Mr. Prime Minister, it’s not fair. We’ve got to change, we’ve got to change, we’ve got to change,” and we’re talking to them very seriously. We’re talking to a lot of places. But when the Wall Street Journal comes out and they say, ” No, no, take the tariffs. Go and talk to China.” They’ve been trying to talk to them for 25 years. But actually, you know what? They really haven’t. The fact is the leaders that were in my position, they didn’t do a damn thing. They didn’t talk. They didn’t talk. Past leaders followed the terrible advice of these editorial boards that are frankly totally inexperienced in business, I guess, and our industries were utterly decimated. Globalism enriches foreign countries at our expense. Globalism. I love our country. I’m the President of the United States of America. I’m not the president of the the world.
 As long as I’m president, America will never bow to a foreign nation like we were for so many years. As we restore our prosperity, we are also restoring public safety. We are fighting to reduce violent crime. You see so much, and over the last 25 years so much crime, and ensure that every American can live in safety and peace. And yet with all that you see, we’ve had one of the best years of crime prevention that we’ve ever had. It wouldn’t seem that way, but it is one of the best years because those gentlemen that we just saw, the law enforcement, they do a great job.
 You’ve been reading about this a lot lately. We are working very hard to make sure we keep guns out of the hands of insane people and those who are mentally sick and shouldn’t have guns. But people have to remember, however, that there is a mental illness problem that has to be dealt with. It’s not the gun that pulls the trigger. It’s the person holding the gun. Years ago, many cities and states, I remember it so well, closed mental institutions for budgetary reasons. They let those people out onto the street. You probably have your examples up here. I can tell you in New York they closed so many of them and they let really seriously mentally ill people out on the streets, and you see plenty of them today, even today. We’re going to have to give major consideration to building new facilities for those in need. We have to do it. And at the same time, we will be taking mentally deranged and dangerous people off of…
 … Mentally deranged and dangerous people off of the streets so we won’t have to worry so much about that. The big problem. We don’t have those institutions anymore and people can’t get proper care. They’re seriously ill people and they’re on the streets. We can’t make it harder for good, solid law abiding citizens to protect themselves. We will always uphold the right to self defense and we will always uphold the second amendment. We will.
 So important. One of the most powerful promises I made to the people of this state was to confront the opioid and drug epidemic. I used to go around New Hampshire more than any state and you’d say, “Sir, the state is infested.” You said, “Sir, we’ll like a drug den.” You tell me. And I didn’t really see it. And then I met with the police officers and fire departments and all the people that do. And you just seem to have a bigger problem. And by the way, the wall is being built. That’s-
 That’s going to stop a lot of it. The wall is being built.
 Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall.
 You know, we have the fake news. You know about that, where they … A wall that’s lying on the ground in a very important section. So we pick up the wall, it’s in pieces. I mean literally it’s gone and we build a brand new 30 foot steel and concrete wall and the fake media said, “He didn’t build a wall. That’s just renovation. There was no wall, it’s lying on the ground.” People walk right over and it’s rotted, rusted, gone. We take it away. We put a brand new wall up. They give me no credit. You know why? Because they’re fake news. That’s why.
 We’re building a lot of walls. The Army Corps of Engineers is doing a great job. They’re doing a great job.
 Since I took office, we’ve attacked the challenge with everything we have. We have secured a record $6 billion in new funding. Opioid. We vastly increase the distribution of overdose reversing drugs, which are pretty amazing things. We’ve given them to your police department, your fire department, pretty amazing. We have reduced the total amount of opioids prescribed by 34%. The department of justice has prosecuted more than 3000 defendants in opioids related cases. And our public awareness campaign about the terrible suffering that drugs inflict has already reached 58% of all young Americans.
 I said that you have to show them. We’re doing ads beautiful ads. Shows them, and you’ve seen them. I don’t even want to describe them. They’re brutal. But we’re doing ads on television and papers about how bad it is for children so they can see it. Because the greatest thing we can do is not get people started on drugs, right. Not get them started.
 It’s hard to get off. You know, we can get them off and we’re doing it and it’s been done. But it’s hard to get off. If they never start. It’s real easy. It’s real easy. So we’re trying to get young kids, you won’t see the fruits of this labor for a little while because it takes a while. But we’re really, we are working so hard on advertising and promotions to tell young kids, children how bad drugs are, how dangerous they are, how horrible they are, how they destroy your brain, how they do so many bad things. And they’re really very tough ads. They’re hard hitting ads. And I think they’re having a big impact. You’ll see over time you’ll see. Over time you’ll see.
 But we still have much work to do. But as a result of these efforts, last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug overdose deaths in 31 years.
 And at the center of America’s drug crisis is the border crisis. Vast quantities of deadly narcotics are being smuggled across the border including meth, cocaine, heroin and fentanyl. And as part of my trade deal with China, it’s been very important. And President Xi said he’s going to do it. So far he has not done it. But I said, “You have to stop sending us fentanyl.” Have to. “And you have to criminalize in China the making of fentanyl.” And so far he has not come through, but I think he will. You’ll know, you’ll know.
 Yet Democrats want to open borders and Republicans want strong borders. That you’re difference. One wants open borders. Who can even think of an open border? Think of it? Even though many people that come into our country are wonderful people, they’re are still coming in illegally. They’re not coming in through merit. But what about the bad ones? We have serious, serious criminals that want to come in, and if we had open borders they would be flowing in like you’ve never seen before. Democrats want open borders, they don’t mind crime. We do mind crime and that’s the way it is.
 Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities. Last year alone sanctuary cities declined more than 17,000 requests from federal authorities to hand over criminal aliens already in their custody. In other words, 17,000 criminal aliens were released by these cities directly into US communities. You don’t understand even what the hell are they doing? What are they doing? 17,000. Republicans believe our city should be sanctuaries for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens.
 We will always support the amazing heroes of ICE and Border Patrol, and we will always support law enforcement. Every Democrat candidate also wants to give illegal immigrants free welfare.
 Republicans believe public benefits should be protected for truly needy Americans, not for illegal aliens. And we should reduce our taxes and many other things with all of that money that we’re talking about.
 We need to elect a strong Republican majority to end sanctuary cities. Stop human traffickers, stop drug smugglers and adopt an immigration system that puts the needs of American workers and families first.
 It’s also time for Democrats to join with us to protect the sacred integrity of our elections by supporting voter ID, voter identification.
 It’s incredible. They’re constantly saying, “Oh, we need to protect them.” But they’re not looking for that. They’re not looking for that. We say, “What about voter ID? In other words, you have a picture, you have to go up. What about voter ID?” That they don’t want to do, but we need voter ID.
 The Democrat party has never been farther outside the mainstream.
 Where do they come from? You know, you say you want low taxes, good education, strong military, strong borders. You want to have safe homes. You want a house, you want low interest rates, you’ve got low … Hey, you got low interest rates. The lowest ever. Got low rates, it’s a good time to refinance your house, by the way. Great time. You got everything, and then you see these people they’re against … They have no idea what they’re doing. They have no idea what they’re against. Every major Democrat running for president supports a massive government takeover of healthcare that would raid Medicare and destroy the private health insurance plans of millions of American families that they love. My administration is defending your right to choose the plan and the doctor that is best for you.
 The individual mandate is gone. The most unpopular part of Obamacare, and we almost have Obamacare gone. We’re close. We would have had it before, but we had a vote that was a little bit surprising. I’m sure none of you knew who that vote was. We had it done, repealed and replaced. But it’s going to happen and I think it’s going to actually be in the end, actually better. You watch.
 So we got rid of the individual mandate, which was the most unpopular part of Obamacare. And we’re running it better. You know, I had a political decision. Do I make it great? Alex Azar our secretary, do rerun it well and sort of say, “Hey, we run it well.” Or do we run it badly and have everybody upset? We said, we got to run it well, but it’s still much too expensive. It’s lousy healthcare. But we got rid of the worst part of it. Individual mandate, individual mandate, where you have the privilege of buying the right not to have to pay for expensive insurance. that’s no good health insurance. And we won’t … And you got to remember this. Republicans, and I speak for every one of them, we will always protect pre-existing conditions. We’re going to protect, always. Right, got to do it.
 Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in 51 years. The only decline in 51 years. We have launched a historic initiative to require price transparency, empowering you to choose the lowest price for yourself and for your family. Believe it or not, you didn’t have the right to go in and price your drugs. Who could even believe this? I wonder if big pharma had something to do with that.
 So we’re going to have transparency. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mothers womb. Right up, up till … Right up until the moment of birth. And in the case of the Virginia governor, he’s having a rough, rough time. In his case, the baby is born, and then he goes to talk to the mother. The doctor talks to the mother. The baby is now born, wrapped as he said, and then they decide whether or not to execute the baby.
 That is why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred, the gift of God.
 Hard to believe isn’t that. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion and socialism.
 The Republican party is the party of freedom. We are the party of the American worker, the American family, and the American dream and I’m fighting for you each and every day. So importantly we have confirmed more than 140 federal judges. Within 90 days it will be 179 federal judges. Thank you very much President Obama. Thank you very much.
 I don’t know what happened to them, but I came to office and I had 138 judges that were not appointed by President Obama. So I say, thank you Mr. President, very good and they’ll say he was a great president. Oh, the fake news. He was a great president. If he was a great president how come he left me 138 judges to appoint when everybody says that’s the single most important thing a president of the United States has to do. Great president. He was great. He was a great president.
 And these judges will apply the law as written, including we appointed two great Supreme Court Justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.
 And to help patients with life threatening illnesses we also pass something I’m so proud of, 44 years they couldn’t get it passed, right to try. You can use our newest, our best medicines.
 Incredible. What’s happening. I’m so proud of that. And this from forever, five decades. We pass for our great veterans VA choice and VA accountability. And one of our great friends was a veteran who’s been with me in New Hampshire. I don’t know where you are. Where’s our guy? Where is he?
 So, Al. So, I walk in I said, hello. He’s been with me from the beginning. He wasn’t with … He liked Trump. And I came in. He said, sir, he’s a great veteran. He said, “Sir, I have cancer. And sir, I went into the vet. They were very, very late. They had problems. I’m not blaming them, but they gave me the right to go out and get a great cancer surgeon.” He had his operation. You look much better than you did three years ago Al, much better. Much better. VA choice, right Al. VA choice.
 Great story. Thank you very much, and thank you for your loyalty. He’s been to every rally I ever gave a New Hampshire right from the beginning. I got so tired of looking at him. He’d always be here. Now he’s … Look at him, now he’s sitting in very good. That’s good. But I appreciate that story. I appreciate. VA choice just makes sense, right? Doesn’t it make sense?
 We’ve achieved record funding for the United States military. $716 billion, $700 billion and $738 billion. And it’s almost completely rebuilt. Including, and we hope to God we never have do use it. We have the finest, most powerful nuclear capability anywhere on the face of the earth. And I hope to God we never have to use it.
 We’re investing in the future of human space flight. And someday soon American astronauts will plant the stars and stripes on the surface of Mars.
 I told my guys at NASA, you know, NASA, when we took it over, it was exhausted. The runways and the grounds had all weeds growing through the cracks in the concrete. You wouldn’t recognize it now. It’s beautiful. It’s the best place anywhere on earth. And I also said, though, you know, I hear all these rich guys for some reason, they love space. So they’re rich. I said, let them send the rockets up. What the hell do we have to do it? Right? So I see Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk, they’re putting rockets up. I think it’s great. And they pay us rent. They use our facility. That’s great. But we’re also doing it, and NASA has some of the greatest plans we’ve ever had. These are great people, great scientists.
 But we also let the private sector put up rockets. The one which recently went up and you see the engines coming back down and they coming … There’s no wings, no nothing. It’s almost like, what are we watching is this fiction? And they come down and they save all of the propellants. All of the, really the most expensive parts. They’re able to save it by bringing it back right to where it took off. Who would think they could do this? I never saw this before six months ago, but they’re doing it now more and more. They’re saving a lot of the most important and expensive parts of rockets. So we have a lot of rich guys paying us a lot of rent. But we’re also doing it ourselves.
 To protect America’s security. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal.
 I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.
 And just three months ago, we also recognized the Golan Heights as being a part of and protected by Israel. For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the people of New Hampshire. Thank you.
 And you must never forget the 2020 election right around the corner. 2020 right around the corner. And it’s about one thing. You know what the one thing is, you. It’s about you. It’s about your family. It’s about your future. And it’s about the fate of your country.
 So when we ran together last time, we said the most importantly we had to turn it around. This country was going bad. You see what happened to Venezuela with socialism? Venezuela 15 years ago was one of the richest countries. Now they don’t have water, they don’t have food, they don’t have anything. And this was one of the richest nations in the world. They don’t have anything. We’re working on it. We’re helping people, but it’s very sad. It’s never going to happen to us because we will never ever be a socialist nation. Ever. No matter what label they use, a vote for any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction … The destruction of the American dream. We have a dream. It’s a great dream. This the destruction of the American dream.
 We begin this campaign tonight with the best record, the best results, the best agenda, and the only positive vision for the people of New Hampshire and for the people of America.
 Together we will lift millions more citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. Millions and millions of people. With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair and lawful system of immigration.
 We will enact trade deals that are already happening that ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase made in the USA. We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, ending the AIDS epidemic in America and finding new cures for childhood cancer.
 Something I never thought I’d be able to say, within one decade the AIDS epidemic in the United States will be gone. Think of that. Did you ever think you were going to hear that? No. Did you ever think you were going to hear that? The work they’ve done on AIDs is incredible. That’s an incredible thing. When they told me that, it’s just shattering. It just, it breaks your heart what’s happened. But think of it in 10 years, the AIDS epidemic will be eradicated. So great. Who thought that was going to be happening.
 Who thought I’d be able to get to say that so early in what we’re doing together.
 We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious Liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together. There is one America we will support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States.
 We’ll stand with the incredible men and women of law enforcement.
 We believe in the dignity of work and in the sanctity of life.
 We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way.
 We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. Through every day and every challenge our hearts speak to the words of the New Hampshire state motto, live free or die.
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
 We are fighting for every American mom and dad who wants to protect this land of Liberty for their precious, beautiful children. We are fighting for every young boy and girl who deserves to grow up in a nation of builders and dreamers, pioneers and patriots, and we are fighting for every citizen of the greatest Republic on the face of this earth.
 Every day my presidency, we will never forget that we are Americans and the future belongs to us. The brave this beautiful, strong, proud, and free future. It belongs to us. It’s up to us. We control our own destiny.
 And with your help, your devotion and your drive. We are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one great movement. One people, one family and one glorious nation under God.
 And together we are making America wealthy again. We are making America strong again. We are making America safe again. And we are making America great again. Thank you. New Hampshire. Thank you.
 USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
 Thank you all. Thank you very much. Thank you to Vice President Mike Pence, and hello Cincinnati. You know, I used to work in Cincinnati, a place called Swifton Village. You know what that is? Swifton Village? It was good and it worked out well, and it gives you confidence when things work out well at a young age, and look what happened to all of us, right? Look what happened. Look what happened. I was watching the so-called debate last night, and I also watched the night before that was long, long television. The Democrats spent more time attacking Barack Obama than they did attacking me practically. This morning, that’s all the fake news was talking about. It’s all they were talking about.
 That wasn’t pretty. No, we’re doing good. It’s great to be back in the state that I love. I love this state. Very special. Very, very special, on the banks of the beautiful Ohio River with the hardworking patriots of the American heartland. Thank you, Ohio. We love you, Ohio. We’ve got thousands of people standing outside, and I asked the officials can we sneak some up along the aisles? Can they sit on the stairs? But I’ll tell you what, this is some crowd, some turnout. We’ve sold tens of thousands of tickets. And, you know what the sale price is? We keep it nice and low. We keep it nice and low. But, there never has been a movement like this. This is a movement the likes of which they’ve never seen before, maybe anywhere, but certainly in this country.
 They’ve never seen anything like this before. You came from the mountains and the valleys and the rivers, and you came for … I mean, look, from wherever you came from. There were a lot of you. And, they showed up on election day. I’ll never forget, a wonderful congressman from Tennessee. They have early voting, and one of the earliest places, great state, Tennessee, and he was in Pennsylvania with me, great state. And he said, “You know, sir, I’ve been doing this for a long time, but I’ve never seen people like this show up for early voting. People that haven’t voted in a long time because they didn’t see anybody they wanted to vote for.” He said, “I’ve never seen it. They have Trump banners, and Trump hats, and Trump buttons. I’ve never seen it.”
 This great congressman said, “I don’t know, sir, but I can tell you one thing. If the rest of the country is voting like Tennessee is voting, you’re going to win by a lot.” And, we won, and we won by a lot. We won by a lot. Our nation is stronger today than ever before. The number one economy on earth. No economy is so strong. We’re rebuilding the awesome might of the United States military, and soon it will be stronger relatively speaking than at any time in our history, and when we took over, it was depleted. We took over a depleted military. It’s not depleted anymore, I can tell you that.
 Our spirit is strong. Our stride is back and our stand is clear. We are finally putting America first. It’s about time.
 We’ve created six million new jobs since election day. Nobody would’ve thought that was possible. More than seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps, and they’re happy. They’re happy. 123,000 more Ohio workers are employed today than when I was elected. Think of that number. And, right now, Ohio is the most successful it’s ever been in the history of our country. Thank you. Congratulations, Ohio. Stand up, Mike. And, you have a good governor. I want to tell you that. Good job. Mike.
 Unemployment has reached the lowest rate in over half a century and unemployment for African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans and Asian-Americans have all reached the lowest rates ever recorded. While Republicans are working every day to build up our country, the rage-filled Democrat Party is trying to tear America apart. The Democrat Party is now being led by four left wing extremists who reject everything that we hold dear. No one has paid a higher price for the far left’s destructive agenda than Americans living in our nation’s inner cities. They have paid a dear price. Do you see what’s happening?
 You see our inner cities, we spend billions and billions and billions for years and years and years, and it’s stolen money and it’s wasted money and it’s a shame. For decades, these communities have been run exclusively by democratic politicians, and it’s been total one party control of the inner cities. For a hundred years, it’s been one party control and look at them. We can name one after another, but I won’t do that because I don’t want to be controversial. We want no controversy. No controversy. The democrat record is one of neglect and corruption and decay. Total decay. The Democrats have tax and regulated jobs and opportunity out of these cities and out of existence.
 They’ve squeezed the blood out of them. Left wing mayors and city councils have opposed school choice, trapping children and failing in government schools left and right. So many of these mayors right now, you know where they are? They’re in jail, that’s where they are. Republicans believe that every parent has the right to send their children to the school of their choice, but the greatest betrayal committed by the Democrats is their support for open borders. These open borders would overwhelm schools and hospitals, drain public services, and flood communities with poisonous drugs.
 It’s tough enough, and I want to thank, by the way, the country of Mexico. They’ve got 21,000 soldiers on the border right now. I’m starting to like Mexico a lot. They do a lot more for us than the Democrats do, right? A lot more, a lot more. And, the numbers are way down. You’ll see that. Way, way down. Democrat lawmakers care more about illegal aliens than they care about their own constituents. They put foreign citizens before American citizens. We’re not going to do that. 572 people were murdered in Chicago last year.
 Democrat mayor. Democrat? You must have a democrat mayor? Do you have a democrat mayor? Come on, law enforcement. Democrat mayor. Cincinnati, do you have a democrat mayor? Well, that’s what happens. You see, there are thousands of people outside, and I said, “I agree. We set a new record tonight at this arena, but we could get a few more on the floors, a few more up here.” They’re outside where it’s a hundred degrees out and they weren’t able to let us do it. And I said, “Is that run by the Democrats?” The answer is yes. I said [inaudible 00:16:00]. So, you got a lot of hot people outside, but we broke the all time record.
 The homicide rate in Baltimore is significantly higher than El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala. I believe it’s higher than … Give me a place that you think is pretty bad. Give me a place. The guy says Afghanistan. I believe it’s higher than Afghanistan in our country. Think of that. I believe, we’ll check the numbers and if we’re wrong, they will tell us tomorrow. It’ll be headlines. Trump exaggerated. I do believe the rate is higher than Afghanistan, yet Democrats, and they’ve run it for many years, want to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on illegal migrants instead of supporting their own struggling communities. No good, no good. The conditions in Nancy Pelosi’s once great city of San Francisco are deplorable. They’re deplorable. Do you remember the word deplorable?
 Do you remember when Hillary used the deplorable? She used two words. She used deplorable and irredeemable, right? And only being a politician for a few years. I said what a terrible mistake that she used the word irredeemable, but it turned out to be deplorable. Deplorable was not a good day for Hillary. Crooked Hillary. She is a crooked one She’s crooked. She is crooked. Nearly half of all the homeless people living in the streets in America happen to live in the state of California. What they are doing to our beautiful California is a disgrace to our country. It’s a shame the world is looking at it. Look at Los Angeles, with the tents and the horrible, horrible, disgusting conditions. Look at San Francisco. Look at some of your other cities, and then you have a governor … You have a governor that invites the whole world to come into California. We’ll pay for your healthcare.
 Then you wonder why so many people are coming up. They’re coming up because we’re the hottest economic country in the world, but they’re also coming up because you have people like that governor say, “Come on up. We’ll give you healthcare. Come.” Who wouldn’t come up? Who wouldn’t come up? How crazy is this? How crazy is this? Schools, healthcare. Today, I’ve a simple proposal for Democrat leaders to support legislation to end illegal migration, and we will use the vast savings to rebuild our inner cities. That’s the way we should be doing it. That’s what we should be doing. By the way, you know, they keep talking about, ” Oh, the voters, the voters, the voters.” They want all sorts of security. What about a thing called voter ID? Voter identification?
 Rob Portman, please work on that, Rob Portman. You have a great senator. Would you please start working on that? You see the response. Every place I go, Rob. Please, Rob. Voter ID. They give you everything they can give you except voter ID and the things that matter. Republicans believe that a nation must care for its own citizens first. Our pledge to America’s workers has secured commitments to train more than 12 millions Americans for the jobs of tomorrow. You know who’s working very hard on that? You probably never heard of her. Ivanka Trump. She’s working very hard. She gave up a lot. She had a very easy life, but she loves doing it. She’s got over, I think, now 12 million people. They’re teaching them the great companies of our country, they’re teaching people how to do it, and it’s an incredible thing to watch. To give former prisoners a second chance at life, we passed groundbreaking criminal justice reform that nobody could’ve passed except us.
 President Obama tried, a lot of them tried, they couldn’t get it passed. I got it passed with a lot of help from liberals and conservatives, and a lot of help. And, the biggest beneficiary is the African-American community. Biggest beneficiary. And, something which a lot of people don’t talk about, but we doubled the child tax credit. Doubled it. Our tax plan also created nearly 9,000 opportunity zones, hottest thing going, providing massive new incentives for investment in job creation in distressed communities.
 Left together, I put out a six minute video detailing everything I found unacceptable about liberalism and the Democrat Party.
 Take your time. Take your time.
 Doctor? Doctor in the house, please? Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, doctor. Thank you. Don’t forget, it’s a hundred degrees in here. That person’s been standing there for almost a day if you think about it. A lot of you, so I appreciate it. And you know what? They’ll come back. They’ll get a little something and they’ll come right back because there’s never been anything like this. There’s never been anything, right? Never been. Thank you. Incredible.
 We established more than 300 opportunity zones in Ohio alone, and these are really working out incredibly well. Nationwide, nearly eight million African-Americans live in opportunity zones, but every democrat voted against them. Every single democrat, because they vote as a block. It’s the only thing they do good. They stick together. Their policies, no good. They’re lousy politicians, but they stick together like glue. It’s the only thing they have. That’s the only thing they have going. Democrats deliver poverty for their constituents and privilege for themselves. Republicans deliver jobs, safety and opportunity for all Americans. We’re thrilled to be joined tonight by many terrific Republican leaders, and we’ll start off with a man who had a very, very tough race for governor. A lot of people choke. They choke like dogs. They can’t breathe, aw. They can’t breathe. This guy was running against a so-called star …
 USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
 So, that’s two protestors, and tomorrow night the headline will be, Protesters, Protesters. You know what happened to the second one? He looked at the guy in front of him and he said, “Ah, I’m out of here. Bye.” That’s the way it works, that’s the way it works, I guess. Too bad. But, a man who really has done a fantastic job, he campaigned so hard, and this was a star right from the fields of the great Pocahontas whose now lying and cheating her way to the presidency, if possible. She’s trying to win, remember? She defrauded people with her credentials. She said she was Indian, and I said that I have more Indian blood than she does, and I have none. I’m sorry.
 We drove her crazy. And, we drove her crazy. That’s a good thing, not a bad thing. She went out and she had a blood test done, and it came out 1,024th. He said, ” Somewhere back there, hundreds of years ago, there may have been an Indian. Or it may have been a statistical error because it was so small.” Which, it was. Anyway, but the guy was from her group. You wouldn’t be very happy right now, and we have a man that campaigned so hard, relentless. I came in, we did a rally where we had people like this. It was packed the day before the election and Mike DeWine won that election.
 -and Mike Dewine won that election and he won it easily. Mike Dewine. We have a man who’s running for governor of Kentucky again. And he’s done an incredible job. And did you ever hear, sometimes you could do such a good job that not everybody appreciates it? But they had a lot of problems with pensions and a lot of tremendous problems that a normal governor would never have been able to correct. But when you correct it, you make yourself a little bit less popular. But he had no choice and they had no choice. It’s a great, great state and he has turned out to be a great, great governor. Matt Bevin. He’s running in November, and because I like him so much, Matt get a nice big arena ready, we’re going to do a rally for you.
 And a man who’s fantastic son is here tonight who I just met, incredible. When I ran with him, he was down. I said, “Rob Portman’s down,” and then about four weeks later he was up by like 24 points. I said, “What the Hell did you do?” And you know what he did? He does a great job. That’s what he did. Senator Rob Portman. Great guy. And we have a few guys that, these are warriors. A couple of them you saw the other day, they were questioning Bob Mueller. That was a beauty. He was sharp, wasn’t he?He was sharp as a tack and Steve Chabot and Brad Wenstrup, and Warren Davidson and Andy Barr and a man named Greg Pence who happens to be a brother of somebody I know very well. They have been with us through thick and thin, and it has been mostly really good times because what we’ve done, no other administration in the first two and a half years in history has done. Thank you fellas. Great job.
 A couple of them gave a grilling. They gave a grilling. All they had to do is mention the facts and it was over. And also the auditor of the great state of Ohio, a man whose job I made much easier because you have money pouring in. You have companies pouring in. Keith Faber. How is it Keith? The numbers are good, Keith. Numbers are good, right? Yeah. The numbers are good.
 Ohio Senate President, Larry Obhof. Larry, thank you. Great job. Nice tie. I like Larry’s tie.
 And you have a couple of people that are very, very powerful. I hear that office and I shudder, Ohio Supreme Court justices, Sharon Kennedy and Judy French. Thank you. Please don’t recuse yourself because I gave you a nice welcome, should I ever be before you. I love judges. When they see you for about two seconds and then you say, oh, that judge should be fair. And then they say, “I’d like to recuse myself because 29 years ago I met Donald Trump.” I’d never have been in… We’ve been doing very well in the courts, by the way. Have you seen? We’ve been winning a lot of cases, a lot of cases. We really have.
 We’ve now appointed 148, think of this federal judges, 148, we’re going to soon have within about two months, Mitch McConnell, the Senate, Rob Portman has helped so much. Listened to this: 179. Percentage wise, it’s the second most. We will never be number one. Sadly we’ll never be number one. So percentage wise, nobody’s ever seen anything like it. And that’s because President Obama basically was not able for about three years to get his people in, which is a shame. And I came in, I had 148 openings. You’re supposed to have none. I said, “How many do we have?” 148. And I said, “You got to be kidding.” And we’ve all done a good job together. It’s been amazing, with Mitch and you and everybody. It’s been amazing. So we’re going to be up to, within two months, 179 federal judges. That’s in two and a half years. And what else? Two great Supreme Court judges. Great ones.
 There’s only one person. I think most of you must know this. Who percentage wise has done better than me with judges? Tell me. I’ll give you a hint? He appointed 100% of the federal judges and 100% of the United States Supreme Court. George Washington. That’s one record we’re not going to beat. But I appointed many more than him, so let’s take it that way. Many anymore.
 I also want to introduce a friend of mine who’s done an incredible job. She’s really something, she has been incredible as a leader of the GOP. She’s the chair and she’s my friend Jane Timken. And aman Bob Paduchik. You know Bob Paduchik? So Bob, I had to pick campaign manager in Ohio and I kept hearing from the media, “You must win the state of Ohio.” I heard this over and over for like a year and a half. “You must win Ohio. You must win.” So I had to pick a campaign manager and I picked a man named Bob Paduchik. And no matter what happened, no matter how badly we were doing, he said, “Sir, you’re going to win Ohio easily.” I said, “But Bob, we just lost the head of the GOP in Ohio. He left because you have a certain governor that asked him to leave.” Great support from the governor, a different governor than Mike by the way, slightly. So he had to get out. So I said, “We just lost.” And Bob said, “Don’t worry about it, sir. You’re going to win. In fact, I think you just went up.”
 Then we lost a couple of other people. I’d call him. I say, “Bob, I’m worried about Ohio. Very worried.” He said, “Don’t worry about it, sir. I think he just went up.” He kept saying, “You just went up.” I said to somebody, “I don’t know much about this guy, but boy, he’s the most optimistic person I’ve ever met.” True. He said, “Don’t worry.” We ended up winning Ohio by close to nine points, which is unheard of. He was right. Bob Paduchik. Bob.
 And also here tonight, I don’t know, did he do a good job? My son, Donald Jr. and Kimberly. I hope he did a good job. Good, I heard you did. I heard you did a great job. He’s been a great help. They both have. Thank you very much. Thank you, Kimberly. Thank you very much. Our shared Republican agenda is pro worker pro jobs, pro family pro growth and 100% pro American. We’ve eliminated a record number of job killing regulations, giving the average American household $3,000 more to spend every single year. The previous administration tried to shut down American energy and close up, totally, close it up. American clean, beautiful coal. That’s what they did. That didn’t work out too well, but you had a suffer. It didn’t work out well, but get a suffer for a long time until I came along. You’re not suffering any longer.
 The previous administration, they liked to windmills. If a windmill is within two miles of your house, your house is practically worthless. They make noise, they’re intermittent. They kill your birds. They break down all the time. You have to replace them every 10 years because they wear out, and they cost a fortune and they need subsidy. Other than that, they’re quite good. You don’t want one of those windmills within vision. You hear them, they’re noisy. They’ve got a lot of problems.
 No, we’re going to say with the great energy that’s powering our businesses, that’s creating so many jobs. And solar, you know what? We’ll live with solar, but solar is peanuts by comparison to what you need. But we’re going to stay the way we have it. We’ve ended the war on American energy and we’re putting our coal miners back to work and our steelworkers back to work, and our auto companies back to work. We’ve learned over the last three years the incredible gold that were sitting on top of in this country. We’re very lucky. We’re now the largest energy producer in the entire world, bigger than Soviet Union, formerly. Remember the Soviet Union when it was all together. The Soviet Union, when it was all together before they decided we got to call ourselves Russia. When it was all together, they wanted to be, that was always their dream to be the biggest in the world.
 Then it became Russia and you know what? They’ve done a good job with energy and so has Saudi Arabia done a good job with energy. But we’re now bigger than Russia. We are now bigger than Saudi Arabia by far. I withdraw our country from the job killing and very expensive Paris Climate Accord. Last year coal export were up 92% compared to 2016. 92%, do you believe that? You’re shipping it all over the world. To Vietnam. I was in Vietnam and they said, “We get coal from Ohio. We get coal from West Virginia. It’s the finest coal in the world.”
 We’ve created more than 110,000 new mining jobs, and thanks to states like Ohio the United States is now the number one producer of oil, the number one producer of natural gas, the number one everything having to do with energy. Number one. Anywhere in the world. We’re reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that led other countries to pillage our jobs, plunder our factories, and devastate Ohio communities and communities in every state. The era of economic surrender is over, and when you look at what they’ve done to your jobs over a period of time, NAFTA was one of the worst deals ever made and probably the worst deal. You still have empty buildings, empty factories, but now they’re getting filled up pretty fast or being knocked down for brand new ones. We have hundreds of new companies pouring into the United States. My first week in office, I withdrew the United States from one of the last administration’s worst sellouts. It would have destroyed our automobile industry. It would have destroyed manufacturing in this country, and maybe that’s what President Obama meant when he said, you can’t produce manufacturing jobs anymore in the United States, because he would’ve signed Trans Pacific Partnership and he would’ve been right. I killed it.
 And by the way, TPP, Trans Pacific Partnership would have destroyed the automobile industry in this country already. Already the shipped down 30% of your jobs to Mexico. Under the new USMCA. That’s Mexico and Canada. We’ve got to get them to vote on that because that’s an incredible deal. But under the new… It’s going to be very hard for companies to leave you, to fire you, to go down to make their product, whatever it may be, to send it back into the United States with no tax. All we end up with this unemployment and taxes and empty buildings. So they got to vote, on the USMCA. Before I took office, foreign countries ripped us off, robbed us blind, and pushed us around, but America is not being pushed around anymore. Do you realize that?
 I got that from working in Ohio for two summers. We’ve taken the toughest ever action to stand up to China’s trade abuse, and I just announced another 10% tariff on $300 billion worth of Chinese products that come into our country. And that’s on top of the 25% that we take off $250 billion coming in from China, and don’t let them tell you, the fact is China devalues their currency. They pour money into their system, they pour it in, and because they do that, you’re not paying for those tariffs. China’s paying for those tariffs.
 For the last 20 years, China’s taken hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars out of our country, and now we’re stopping the theft of American jobs. We’re stopping the theft of so many other things happening, including intellectual property. They steal our intellectual property. I think they want to try and make a deal with us, but I’m not sure, because the word is, I feel they want to wait until they get… They’re praying. They’re praying. They would like to see a new president in a year and a half so they could continue to rip off the United States like they’ve been doing for the last 25 years. Would love to see a guy like sleepy Joe Biden who has no clue what the hell he’s doing.
 They say to sleepy Joe. Sir, “Just sign right there.” “Oh, okay. I’ll sign.” We’ll be losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year to China. It has to stop but they understand that. President Xi is good man. He’s a friend of mine. He understands it. And until such time as there is a deal, we will be taxing the hell out of China. That’s all there.
 If foreign countries don’t want to pay a tariff, I have a simple solution: make your product in America. Come on back to the United States. Come on back to Ohio. There’s no tariff. There’s no tariff. Thanks to steel tariffs, hundreds of thousands of tons, think of this, were dumped on our shores, and steel is like something else. It’s that quality. They were dumping garbage, they call it sand steel, they call it dirt steel.. It was mixed up. It was bad stuff and we didn’t want to use that for our jet fighters and for our beams that hold up building. But they were dumping tremendous quantities of steel, and what was happening is United States steel and all of our companies were going virtually out of business and I stopped it. I put on a 25% tariff, billions of dollars is now pouring into our treasury and our steel companies and our steel workers are coming back.
 Right here in Ohio. Nucor a great steel company, and a steel company that’s doing great again, Nucor, has announced an $85 million upgrade in Marion. Charter Steel announced plans to build a new $150 million steel mill in Cuyahoga Heights, and Cleveland Cliffs announced a new $700 million plant in a very good place that I like a lot, Toledo. Toledo, Ohio.
 This was unthinkable because four years ago, steel plans were closing. They weren’t expanding or they weren’t building. We’re building new plants in Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, all over. Not Just Ohio. On issue after issue, Democrats have forgotten who it is that they’re supposed to represent. They forgot. I wonder why they forgot. The job of elected officials is to represent American citizens, the radical Democrats even support deadly sanctuary cities which release dangerous criminals onto our streets. Sanctuary cities. Many of the places that have sanctuary cities and many of the people that live there, they don’t want them. They don’t want them. They’re dangerous and not good.
 Here are just a few examples. In San Francisco, an illegal alien was arrested no fewer than 10 times in the span of less than one year for numerous counts of burglary and theft. Yet each time San Francisco defied federal authorities and set him free and bad things happened when they set him free. A sanctuary jurisdiction in California recently released a criminal alien from jail. The very next month, the same individual was arrested for rape and then beyond anything you would even believe, a horrible thing happened. But yet again, he was released back into your community. After sanctuary city in New Jersey released an alien charged with domestic violence, he was arrested in Missouri for the murders of three people. In the bizarre worldview of the third and hard left, they have no problem destroying the lives of innocent Americans for a single politically incorrect thought.
 But they want to virtually, and you know this, they want virtual immunity for illegal aliens who have committed horrible crimes and murder. Horrible crimes and murder. Republicans believe our cities should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not criminal aliens.
 And yes just won a big lawsuit last week. In fact, on of my lawyers for winning that lawsuit is here tonight. I gave him a little reprieve. We need a lot of lawyers in the White House. We get sued so much, so unfairly, but we’re winning those lawsuits left and right, but one of them is here. He said, “I’d love to go to a rally.” I said, ” I’m going to a place called Cincinnati, Ohio. You deserve it.” We just won the lawsuit on the wall. Where’s Pat? We just won the lawsuit on the wall. You hear that? We’re building the wall faster and better than ever. It’s time for Democrats to end sanctuary cities and catch and release. You know what you do? You catch them and then you release them and you say, “Would you please report back in four years from now.” But only 2% come back. You know why? Because they’re not the smartest. They are not the smartest. They’re the ones we don’t want to have come back. Only 2% show up. Catch and release, we could end it immediately if the Democrats caved. So what we’re doing is something else. We’re keeping them out altogether. We’re replacing random migraines and we’re replacing the lottery system. How about the lottery system? How about lotteries?
 This was chuck Schumer. You put the name in a basket. The country puts the name in a basket and you picked people out of the lottery. Well, let’s see. This one’s a murderer. This one robbed four banks. This one, I better not say. This one, another murder. Ladies and gentlemen, another murderer. Think of this. Do you think they’re going to put great citizens… they have great citizens, they have great people like we have great people. Do you think those people are going into a lottery? No. And then we get these people coming in and we hold it against the country. The country isn’t based on that, the country, you just take a look, look at the people they put into these lotteries. It’s a disgrace. And how we’ve done this for so many years folks, how we’ve done this. It’s an immigration system that’s totally broken and we’re going to win the House, we’re going to win the Senate, we’re going to win the presidency and we’re going to do a merit based immigration system. Merit based.
 Merit based immigration. And we need that because we have companies coming in from all over the world and we need good workers. We need good people. We’re down to 3.5% unemployment. We need people, but we want people to come in based on merit, not based on some lottery put in by a governor. Democrats have never been farther outside the mainstream. Liberal politicians want to eliminate private-
 Dream. Liberal politicians want to eliminate private healthcare and force everyone onto the government plan. Remember the lies from the previous administration. If you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. 28 time, one lie after another. 28 times it was said and it turned out to be a total lie. My administration is defending your right to choose the plan and doctor that is best for you.
 We’re offering right now plans up to 60% cheaper than Obamacare and we will always protect patients with pre existing conditions. Always. Always. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion.
 And then you’ll have like a governor of Virginia, it’s not only late term abortion, it’s killing the baby after the baby is born. How about that? Think of that. Think of that. That’s why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.
 Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, and they’re the party, frankly, of socialism.
 The Republican Party is the party of freedom. We’re the party of the American worker, the American family. We’re the party of the American dream. I’m fighting for you each and every day. I had a great life. I used to get great publicity. Nobody got better… I had such a great life. It was so easy. My great wife, the first lady, Melania, she said, “You know, you’ve always been a hard worker. You love to work, but your life was a lot easier in the old days.” But I love it and you know why I love it? Because we’re accomplishing so much. Nobody ever thought it would be possible to do the things we’re doing.
 Even a thing like Right to Try, right? Right to Try. They’ve been trying to get that for years and years and years. That’s people that are really sick, terminally ill. They couldn’t get medicine. We have the greatest doctors, the greatest clinics, the greatest technicians in the world. They couldn’t get anything. They’d traveled to Asia if they had money. They traveled to Europe. They’d travel all over the world hoping for a cure. If they had no money they’d just go home. They’d die. They had no hope. For 44 years, they’ve been trying to get Right to Try. We are so advanced in medicine. We have a lot of things that probably work or possibly work, but we weren’t allowed legally to give that to these people that were so sick. You know why? Because they didn’t want this drug if it didn’t work to hurt the people, but the people were terminally ill. So I got it approved and it wasn’t easy. It was complicated. The insurance companies didn’t want to do it. The government didn’t want to do it.
 The doctors didn’t want to do it. Tremendous liability. But our country didn’t want to do it. They said, “Well, if it doesn’t work, we’re going to get sued.” I say, “So they’ll sign an agreement, very strong, one page, taking all liability away from the United States, from the drug companies, from the doctors, all liability. They’re terminally ill. Let’s try it.” And you know what? It’s been a miracle. So many people have done so well. It’s great. We got it done.
 When I set about the agreement, they had these great lawyers and they said, “Gee, that’s a good idea.” They’d been working in this few years. They said, “That’s a good idea.” I said, “Yeah, it’s a good idea. How about getting you to me like in about two hours?” Right to Try. It’s a great thing. But we have so many things like that. I have lists that you wouldn’t even believe. I have lists that go on for pages of things we’ve done. We’ve launched a historic initiative to reduce the price of prescription drugs, including a plan to allow companies to import lower cost drugs from other countries. It’s a very unfair system. Our country pays the highest prices in the world.
 Last year was the first time in 51 years that drug pricing for prescription drugs actually came down. Now we’re going to bring it down by a lot. We’re going to bring it down a lot. And now… So other countries… Here’s an example, Canada pays half the price for a lot of drugs that we do. So we have a great governor in the state of Florida, Ron DeSantis, calls me up. Doing a great job. Ron DeSantis. He was at three and he went to 70. that’s a pretty good increase, right? Ron DeSantis, a great governor. And he comes to me, he goes, “You know, if you buy the drugs, if we buy the drugs, because this is so botched up, we have a middleman. It’s not a good situation.”
 He said, “If I could go and buy the drugs from Canada, I could save 50%.” I said, “Do it. Do it. And if you can buy them from Europe, because their system…” Like, remember I used to scream when I was winning states and not getting the delegates that I was entitled to and I’d say the system is rigged? Well, the drug system is rigged. It’s rigged. So if we can buy the same drug made by the same pharmaceutical company from Europe or from Canada or from other places at a big deep discount, we’re doing it and we’re giving them the right to do it. Just happened today.
 And we’re doing one other thing that, believe it or not is even bigger, but you’ll be seeing that over the next two weeks. With the help of your great Senator, Rob Portman, we’ve taken bold action to confront the opioid epidemic and in Ohio, drug overdose deaths went down 22% last year, 22%. No, but think of that. Opioid, big problem, big problem. Deaths went down. Opioid deaths, 22%. Nobody writes that. Nobody talks about that. They don’t want to talk about that. Good job, Rob. Good job. Good job, Mike. We passed VA Choice and VA Accountability on behalf of our great veterans. They been trying to pass VA Choice for four decades. They couldn’t get it done. We got it done. We got it done. This is where a veteran would stand online for three, four, five, six days, for three weeks, for five weeks. Sometimes they’re okay. By the time they see a doctor, they’re terminally ill. And I said, “You know, I have a great idea.” Because I not been doing that this long. You know, we’ve been working with this for… I’ve been thinking about it a lot. This was during the campaign. What a campaign that was, right? Was that a campaign or what? And I came back to my people. I had experts and I said, “I have a great idea. These lines for the veterans are too long. It takes them three, four weeks sometimes to see a doctor. I have a great idea. Let’s let them go outside. Go to a private doctor. We’ll pay the bill. They’ll be fixed up all perfect and they can do it immediately. We’ll pay the bill.” And I thought… I said, “Man, am I smart? I am the smartest guy to think of that.” So I went before this panel of experts that were with me working on things and I said, “How do you like that idea?” And they said, “Sir, we’ve known about it for about 40 years, but we’ve never been…” I said, “Really? You’ve known about it that long?” But here’s the thing. We got it done. Nobody else could get it done. Nobody else. And Accountability. You couldn’t fire anybody. If they were treating our vets badly, you couldn’t fire them for anything. People could steal. They could be sadistic to our vets. By the way, they wouldn’t have done that in primetime to our vets. I can tell you that. They can be whatever they want. You couldn’t fire them. And it was because of unions and it was because of other things. Civil Service. Very tough. You couldn’t fire anybody for almost anything. We had cases where people got… They got caught stealing a lot of money and you couldn’t fire them. We got VA Accountability. Now we say, “Jim, get the hell out of here. You’re fired.”
 We’re rebuilding our military. And after years of budget cuts and layoffs, the army tank plant in… Do you Lima? You call it Lima, right? See? You know, most people call it Lima, but I know Lima. But you know why? Because I came here and they said, “We’re closing this plant.” I said, “What kind of a plant is it?” Remember when I was here? In Lima. And I used to say, “You mean Lima?” They said, “No, sir. It’s Lima.” That’s why… Because, but Leah, hey look, I’ll be honest with you because they have it wrong with the teleprompter, okay? And I would have been in big trouble. But the good news is I don’t use the teleprompter too much.
 If I did, you would’ve been out of here a long time ago because it gets very boring when you do the teleprompter deal. But in Lima, and I said, “What kind of a plant?” And I said, “Let’s go see it.” During the campaign I went to see it and they make the incredible, the best army tank in the world and I couldn’t believe the complexity, the genius. I said, “Wait a minute. You close this, you’ll never be able to open it again. You can’t open this. This isn’t like a normal situation that you can open four walls and a roof. This is complicated. This is genius and you’ll never replace these men and women that work here.” I said… And I didn’t know anything at the time other than I said, “You’re not closing it.” They took it off to list. They kept it open and now we’re making army tanks around the clock. We’re investing in the future of human space flight. Americans won the race to the moon and we will now win the race to Mars. It’s going to be amazing. And you know, one thing I have to say also, and we’re also winning the race to great, great strategic defense and offense, not just Mars. And Mike Pence is doing a great job on that. Great job.
 To protect America’s security, I withdrew the United States from the horrible Iran nuclear deal, a horrible, stupid deal.
 We gave Iran $150 billion. We gave Iran $ 1.8 billion in cash. Plane loads of cash. I wonder what they saw when those planes landed. I wonder what happened to the cash? Can you believe it? One $1.8 billion we gave them in cash.
 And remember what I said, Iran is a much different country than two and a half years ago. When I took over, Iran was all over. They had 14 to 18 different sites of confliction. They were all over. And now they just want to… They want a negotiated deal so badly. Iran. Iran. I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. And just a few months ago, we recognized the Golan Heights. You know that. That’s another one. Big one for the security of Israel.
 Also recognized the legitimate government of Venezuelan and we condemn any of the socialist brutality taking place. Let’s see what happens there. Let’s see what happens. Tonight we renew our resolves that America will never be a socialist country. Never, ever, ever will it be a socialist country.
 No matter what label they use, a vote for any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction of our great, our beautiful, our wonderful American dream. We’re not going to let our country ever go down the route of socialism. You must never forget that the 2020 election is about one thing. It’s about you. I say it again. I say it all the time. Never happened before. There’s never been a movement like this. They’ve had movements. They never went… They won a state. They did well in the state. We won 32 states. There’s never been anything like it. There’s never been anything like it.
 But this movement is about your family and your future, and it’s about the life and the fate of your country. We begin our… Hey, look, this is a good place. Is this a great thing to do? We begin our campaign and we’re going to do great, Bob. Right, Bob? Bob, if we don’t do great, you’re fired, Bob. You’re fired.
 But think of it, our Ohio campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda, and the only positive vision for our nation’s future. And again, remember this, Ohio is doing better today than it’s ever, ever, ever done before. It’s the best it’s ever done. What’s going to do… A guy like a sleepy Joe Biden is going to come in and say, “But I could do better. I could do better.” He wants to go back to sleep. Together we will continue unleashing the power of American enterprise so every American can reach their fullest and highest potential, tremendous potential. Our country has such tremendous potential. You know, we’ve had… The last week, we’ve had the highest stock market in the history of our country. That means 401ks. That means job. But there’s tremendous potential to go up. We have tremendous potential to go up. With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair, and lawful system of immigration. We will enact trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with those four beautiful words “Made in the USA” or “Made in America”. Either one. You can use either one. Made in America, made in the US.
 We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine and I see what they’re doing. I see it. They show me the things we’re doing in our country today. There’s never been anything like it. We will be ending the AIDS epidemic shortly in America and curing childhood cancer very shortly. We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. Just remember with the Democrats, there is no second amendment. You can forget about keep and bear arms. You can forget it.
 Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one America. We will never ever stop fighting. We support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States. We stand with our incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and we believe in the sanctity of life. And we believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way.
 We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always be proud, patriotic Americans. And we will always live by the words of our national motto, “In God We trust.”
 Two days ago, I spoke at the 400th anniversary of the first representative legislature assembly at Jamestown, Virginia. It was beautiful. It was incredible. I was… I must tell you, I was reminded of so many great things in our country. We have been blessed with such a remarkable and priceless heritage. We are the greatest republic on the face of the earth and we are going to keep it that way.
 Every day of my presidency, we will never forget that we are Americans and the future belongs to us. The future belongs to all of you. The future belongs to the greatest movement in the history of our country.
 And with your help and your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one people in one family saluting one great American flag. We all share the same home. We all share the same heart. And we all share the same love of Almighty God. Together, with the great and proud people of Ohio, we are making America wealthy again. We are making America strong again. We are making America safe again. We are making America great again and with your vote in 2020 we will keep America great. Thank you, Ohio. Thank you.
 All right, everybody. Good evening and thanks so much for watching News Now, which is a part of Fox10phoenix.com. My name is Pilar Arias. You just witnessed President Donald Trump speaking live in Cincinnati, Ohio. His speech coming out to about an hour and 20 minutes. I would like to invite all of you watching… There’s thousands of you. Matter of fact, we still have… I’m trying to get our exact number right now. 38, 857 of you watching. If you are not yet a News Now subscriber, it just takes one click, a second click on that little bell will sign you up for notifications and you can be alerted any time we go live. We do stream a lot of political news. We stream for 13 hours a day. We’ve got three News Now hosts, myself, Kristi Larson, Mike Pache. 9:00 AM Arizona time to 10:00 PM Arizona time, Monday through Friday.
 So please join us each and every day. I am going to do what we call a re rack, a replay of President Trump’s remarks in Cincinnati, Ohio in case you missed it. I will also clip it on YouTube. you can like and share it with your friends, your family, your coworkers, your neighbors, everybody you know. Again, this is News Now, which is a part of Fox10phoenix.com. Thank you for spending your Thursday evening with us and believe it or not, it is August 1st.
 USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to Greenville, North Carolina, I want to thank you. And to, Mike Pence, you’ve done a great job. Great Vice President. Thank you Mike. And we have all night, we’re going to have a lot of fun tonight, and I have nothing to do, nothing, nothing. We have nothing to do but make our country great again, and that’s happening fast. It’s wonderful to be back in this beautiful state with thousands of hardworking North Carolina patriots, and thank you for your support.
 Thank you for that very big victory we had three years ago. Time is flying. You getting ready? Let’s do it again. Right? Let’s do it again. I just heard that the United States House of Representative, has overwhelmingly voted to kill the most ridiculous project I’ve ever been involved in, the resolution. How stupid is that? Own impeachment. I want to thank those Democrats because many of them voted for us. The vote was a totally lopsided 332 to 95 to 1.
 332 to 95, think of it, we have the strongest economy in history, the lowest unemployment numbers ever, we’ve rebuilt the most powerful military, it was totally depleted when I took office, and now it’s rebuilt. We passed the largest tax cuts and regulation cuts of any president or any administration in history. We took care of our great vets, including veterans choice, and veterans accountability. And they want to try and impeach, it’s a disgrace. It’s a disgrace.
 So now we have that behind us, and I have to say this, and I’ll say it just once, what happened to me with this witch hunt should never be allowed to happen to another president of the United States. Never, ever again. I want to thank Republican leadership for what they’ve done for all of us, by stopping that hoax, the Russian hoax I call it, because America is winning again. America’s respected again, and, because we are finally putting America first.
 Our economic policy can be summed up in three very beautiful and simple words, jobs, jobs, jobs. We’ve created 6 million new jobs since election day. If I would have said that, nobody would have believed it. If I would’ve said that, the fake news would have said he’s exaggerating. And I wouldn’t have said it because I wasn’t even sure we could do it. Think of it, 6 million jobs since election day, think of it. And by the way, North Carolina has had its best economic year in the history of your state.
 Our country has added more than 180,000 people to the workforce, and think of that through what we’ve done on a federal basis. You picked up over 180,000 jobs, North Carolina. Think of that, and you have your lowest unemployment rate. You have a lot of good things, but let’s not talk too much about North Carolina. Let’s win this election nationwide. You remember North Carolina, that was going to be the Clinton firewall. She spent a fortune here, and I kept coming in and coming out. They call it, earned media. I earned it.
 I kept coming in and coming out, and every time I left they said, “I don’t think we’ll lose in North Carolina.” You know what? I was right. We won it. We won it easily. We won it easily. So I just want to thank everybody. Seriously. This is a big… that was a big deal. November 8th, that was a big deal. Donald Trump has won the great state of North Carolina. A big deal. That was when you started to see the folks at a certain other convention, beautiful looking place.
 One of the most beautiful venues I’ve ever seen, but I don’t want any part of it. It was unlucky. I don’t want any part, but that’s when you saw the people say, what the hell is going on? What? What’s happening? And then it was state after state, it was Florida, it was South Carolina, we love South Carolina. Right? Unbelievable. It was Pennsylvania. Remember they wouldn’t announce the numbers in Pennsylvania, so there was 1% of the vote remaining.
 If I lost every one of those votes, we still win by a lot, and they wouldn’t announce it. They wouldn’t announce it. And then we won the great state of Wisconsin. First time in many, many decades, that a Republican won. And then we had a surprise, but not a surprise to us, because we’re bringing back the auto industry. We brought so much back to the great state of Michigan. That was a shocker, remember that?
 Do you remember a certain hand on that beautiful board and they said, “You know this sport is getting awfully red.” That’s Republican. “There’s a lot of red up there.” We had a lot of… That was one hell of a night, wasn’t it though? One hell of a night. I think it was maybe, you know there are those that say, one of the most extraordinary and exciting evenings in the history of television and the history of anything. And you know, you can go, all over the world in some cases, it was morning.
 You go to Asia, you go to Europe, you go all over. It was just record setting and here’s the point, we have to do it again. We have to do it again.
 Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
 And the reason we have to not only to do new things, which we will, and you know statutorily and we had all sorts of artificial witch hunts over our head. Can you imagine if we didn’t have to go through that hoax? I don’t know that we would’ve done any better to be honest with you. I think we’ve done more in two and a half years than any president ever< first two and a half years. But could you imagine what it could have been if we didn’t have the witch hunt?
 You said it. He said it. I won’t say it because it’s a Harrell, it’s a terrible word. So I will not say that this guy said, if we didn’t have the bullshit, that’s all. No, no. Could you imagine if we didn’t have the time wasted the time and everything. Can you imagine? And you know a friend of mine said maybe you wouldn’t have done as well. Is that possible? That can happen.
 Maybe we would have had too much time on our hands. Who knows? But I can say, nobody in their first two and a half years has done anywhere close to what we not being what we, not me, what we’ve all done. It’s true. The unemployment rate among African Americans is the lowest in the history of our country. Unemployment among Hispanic Americans, where we’re doing really well, you know why? Because they want a strong border. They want it because they understand the border better than anybody.
 They want that strong border. They want that wall that’s being built right now. They want that wall, and they really do. They understand the border better than anybody, and they don’t want criminals coming in. They don’t want crime coming, they don’t want to lose their jobs. They like the fact that their salaries are going up, their wages are going up, they understand it better. So Hispanic American, the best unemployment numbers in our history, Asian Americans, the best unemployment numbers in our history.
 And likewise women, 74 years. So I’m sorry women, I let you down. It’s not in our history, but we’re going to be there very soon. We’re going to be there very soon. Women are doing incredibly and women… the men are going to get angry. Sorry men. Whoa, look at all those signs. Women for Trump. Wow, thank you. That’s a lot of signs. You remember last election, Donald Trump will never ever get the women. Then we got this tremendous number of women.
 We got this tremendous number of women, and during the election night, they say, “What’s going on?” you know it’s called suppression polls. Suppression. Polls are just as fake as the news itself, but women filled 60%, and I’m sorry to tell you this, men, they’re going to sue me for discrimination now. Women fill 60% of all of the new jobs created last year. Women took 60%, what’s wrong with you, men? What’s wrong with you? But the radical Democrats are trying to destroy all of our country’s tremendous achievement, and our country’s tremendous success. Unprecedented.
 We’ve had unprecedented success. Leaders come in from other countries, prime ministers, presidents, kings, queens, dictators. Sometimes, I hate to say it, dictators, and they all start off by saying, “Mr. President, I’d like to congratulate you on the incredible economy that you’ve created. The greatest anywhere in the world by far.” And sadly, China who I have a very good relationship with President Xi, I really like him. But China has had… yesterday it was announced, the worst year in 27 years.
 We’ve had the best, and if our opponent ever got into office, instead of being up, 62% instead of those 401ks of yours being up 60, 70, 80, 90%, crash, big crash. You would have had a crash, the likes of which we have never seen before, if they got in office. Because we freed up our country, we freed up our economy especially with regulation cuts, but also with those big beautiful tax cuts. We freed it up.
 The leading voices of the Democrat Party are left wing extremists, who reject everything our nation stands for. But again, I have to tell you, this vote was so big. I have to thank many of the Democrats. I mean, that was amazing. No, no, I really do. I respect it. I really do. That was a slaughter, but many of those people that voted for us this afternoon in somewhat of a sneak attack, a real sneak attack, many of those people that voted for us were Democrats, and I want to thank them, because they did the right thing for our country.
 Republicans know that America is the greatest force for peace and justice in the history of our world. But these left-wing ideologues see our nation as a force of evil. The way they speak, so badly of our country. They want to demolish our constitution, weaken our military, eliminate the values that built this magnificent country. You have to look at some of their recent comments which are never talked about. When you see the four Congress women.
 Oh, isn’t that lovely? I’ll give you just a couple, I’ve had pages and pages, but we don’t want to bore you. We don’t want to go too long. But we have to give a couple, because that’s the great thing about live television. They can’t cut it. Representative Ilhan Omar, of a really great state, I almost won the first time in decades and decades, Minnesota. Greg Stanton.
 USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
 By the way, I keep hearing how much enthusiasm is in the radical left. I don’t think they have enthusiasm. They’re just fighting with each other. We have all of the enthusiasm. He goes home now to mommy, and he gets reprimanded, and that’s the end. Sorry mommy. Sorry mom. Didn’t mean to embarrass your mom. But it’s true, we have the enthusiasm folks. Look at this. Look at this. And by the way, thousands and thousands of people outside and people that couldn’t get in, thousand. We’ve got all the enthusiasm. They’re fighting each other. They’ve gone so far left, nobody wants to even think about it.
 So representative Omar, blames the United States, for the terrorist attacks on our country, saying that terrorism is a reaction to our involvement in other people’s affairs. She smeared US Service members involved in Black Hawk Down. In other words, she slandered the brave Americans who were trying to keep peace in Somalia. Omar minimized the September 11th attacks on our homeland, saying some people did something. I don’t think so. Some people did something. Yeah, some people did something. All right. She pleaded for compassion for Isis recruits attempting to join the terrorist organization.
 She was looking for compassion. Omar laughed that Americans speak of Al-Qaeda in a menacing tone and remark that, you don’t say America with this intensity. You say, Al-Qaeda makes you proud. Al-Qaeda makes you proud. You don’t speak that way about America. And at a press conference just this week when asked whether she supported Al-Qaeda, that’s our enemy. That’s our enemy. They are a very serious problem that we take care of, but they always seem to come along somewhere. She refused to answer. She didn’t want to give an answer to that question. Omar blamed the United States for the crisis in Venezuela.
 I mean think of that one, and she looks down with contempt on the hardworking American, saying that ignorance is pervasive in many parts of this country. And obviously and importantly, Omar has a history of launching vicious antisemitic screens.
 Send her back! Send her back! Send her back! Send her back! Send her back! Send her back! Send her back! Send her back! Send her back! Send her back! Send her back! Send her back!
 When she talked about the evil Israel, and it’s all about the benjamins. Not a good thing to say. So that’s Omar. That’s Omar. And by the way, many other things, all you have to do is press the right button on your beautiful screen, and you’ll see thing after… You didn’t hear this over the last two days or did you hear anybody talk about this? Her colleague Representative Rashida Tlaib, agreed with Omar’s characterization of 9/11 and said that members of Congress who support Israel forgot, what country they represent.
 And Tlaib also used the F word to describe the presidency and your president. That’s not nice, even for me. She was describing the President of the United States and the presidency with the big fat vicious, the way she said it, vicious F-word. That’s not somebody that loves our country. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. Check out her scores by the way, with her green new deal, the green new deal. Where did that come from? She’s conducted outrageous attacks against men and women of law enforcement, she compared American border agents managing a humanitarian crisis, that I always said was a humanitarian crisis, and they said it was manufactured.
 They don’t say it was manufactured, and we’re stopping it and I want to thank Mexico. They’ve got 21,000 soldiers now stopping people from coming into our country. But Cortez, somebody said that’s not her name it’s… They said that’s not her name, sir. I said, “No, no, I don’t have time to go with three different names.” We’ll call her Cortez. Too much time. Takes too much time. So Cortez also, she said essentially Nazis are running concentration camps, and when Mike Pence went down just a few days ago with members of Congress and the media, and you looked at those so-called horrible concentration camps, they said, “Wow, these places a clean. Wow. They have air conditioning, they have water.”
 And you know, to be honest, it’s not like they came and we want to take care of people. We got to straighten out our immigration laws. You know, in a very short period of time, if the Democrats would give us a few votes, we could solve the immigration problem and it would be so great. It would be so great. But these kids and these people come from rough places. And I’ll tell you what, some of them said, “We’ve never lived like this before.” They have water, they have air conditioning, they have things that they’ve never seen.
 And we listen to her talking about drinking water from toilets, which was a lie, which was a lie. Cortez said that illegal immigrants are more American than any person who seeks to keep them out ever will be, can you believe that? That’s what she say. She described contemporary America, that’s you, that’s me, that’s all of us, as garbage, garbage, a garbage. Remember deplorables, right? That sounds worse.
 I think that’s worse, but we’ll save it for whoever’s going to be the nominee, and right now, sleepy Joe’s not looking too good, Pocahontas. Pocahontas is gaining a little bit, because we probably use the Pocahontas a little bit too early, but that’s okay. We’ll bring it out of retirement very soon. They have a new one who knocked the hell out of Biden during the debate? He said, “I wasn’t prepared for that question.” That’s not a good answer. Can you imagine? And according to the polls, I won every single debate Republican and against Hillary. Can you imagine?
 Those are the polls. They won’t admit that. Many, many polls. But can you imagine if I said, “Uh-oh, I’m sorry I wasn’t prepared for that question.” I’m gone. That’s the end of Trump. He’s not prepared. He’s not mentally prepared, that’s his problem. But everybody that knows him knows that. But no Harris hit him with the pretty easy question on busing. What I would say that’s pretty easy, and he choked. He choked. And then he said, “Ah, yeah, I’m sorry I ran out of time. I ran out of time” He ran out of time.
 And then you have a young guy, Buttigieg, Buttigieg. They’re saying how to say his name, Buut-ih-jij. He’s a beauty. He runs a failed city. His city is doing so badly. Mike Pence was the governor of that state. I said, “How was he as the mayor?” Mike is one of the nicest human beings you’ll ever meet. And Mike said, he never did a good job, I’m so shocked to see him running. Okay. And then he goes back home, and African Americans literally were so angry at him for the lousy job and he’s supposed to be like a hot young star, if that’s a hot young star, I guess I just don’t no star anymore. That is not as star.
 That’s not a star. Buut-ih-jij, you say, Buut, and then add ih-jij, Buttigieg. I don’t see him dealing with President Xi of China. I don’t see him meeting successfully with Kim Jong-un. I don’t see him dealing, and nobody has been tougher with Russia than Donald Trump. I don’t know see him dealing with Vladimir Putin. And we have good relationships with them and many others, except now we’re no longer the suckers. Like with NATO, we protect Europe. We spent hundreds of billions of dollars and they’re not paying their fair share.
 So last year I went and said, “Folks, sorry, you got to pay your fair share.” 16 years was going like this? The contribution, and now it’s like a rocket ship, $100 billion. I said to him, great people, 28 nations, including the US, I said to him, “Listen, we’re taking care of you. You screw us on trade, and you don’t pay your military bills. This is not a good deal for the United States.” So we’re taking care of trade. We want to do it nice and slow and easy. You know, we got a world balance, but European Union is terrible to us on trade, terrible.
 Frankly, they’re as tough or tougher than China, just smaller in numbers. That’s the only difference. With China, 507 billion dollars, a you look over the years, for many, many years, they’ve been taken. And guys like Biden say, “Uh-oh, We’d them them.” And he was there eight years, “We’d stop that.” No, Trump is stopping it. Trump is stopping it. Representative Ayanna Pressle. Is she related in any way to Elvis? I don’t know. Who knows? You never know. She thinks that people with the same skin color, all need to think the same.
 She said, “We don’t need any more brown faces that don’t want to be brown voices. We don’t need black faces, that don’t want to be a black voice.” And here we are. But since we’ve [inaudible 00:33:41] disrespectful to people that have taken a lot of shots to the face, but they wouldn’t attack some of these people in this room. They’re not attacking bikers for Trump. They’re not [inaudible 00:33:55] or military. You know they’re attacking a single man standing there with a camera, who never got hit and never hit back before in his life.
 They’ll attack the people, they attacked. Picture that wouldn’t look too good for the people, these are sick bad people remember that. These are bad people. These are bad people. They don’t get the bad press, the press doesn’t want to talk to them. They are very evil. They’re hitting people over the head with sticks, and I mean sticks. I mean bats even. They’re whacking people with bats. They’re very brave. They always show up with a mask and they’re covered. Because then they go home to mom and dad. They don’t want mom and dad to know where they were, but they always attack people that really can’t defend [inaudible 00:35:05] that.
 They’re very brave. They always show up with a mask and they’re covered. Because then they go home to mom and dad. They don’t want mom and dad to know where they were. But they always attract people that really can’t defend themselves very well. Right? They’re attacking this group. They’re not attack North Carolina. That’s for sure. So these Congresswomen, their comments are helping to fuel the rise of a dangerous militant hard left, but that’s so, they are very evil. They’re hitting people over the head with sticks, and I mean sticks. I mean bats even, they’re whacking people with bats. They’re very brave.
 They always show up with a mask and they’re covered, because then they go home to mom and dad. They don’t want mom and dad to know where they were. But they always attract people that really can’t defend themselves very well. Right? They’re attacking this group. They’re not attack North Carolina. That’s for sure. So these Congresswomen, their comments are helping to fuel the rise of a dangerous militant hard left, but that’s okay, because we’re going to win this election like nobody’s ever seen before.
 And tonight I have a suggestion for the hate filled extremists, who are constantly trying to tear our country down. They never have anything good to say. That’s why I say, “Hey, if they don’t like it, let them leave. Let them leave. Let them leave. Let them leave.” They’re always telling us how to run it, how to do this, how to the… you know what? if they don’t love it, tell them to leave it. I don’t know. And I’ll watch, I’ll go back to the, “Oh sir, that was so controversial, sir.” No, I’m just saying it’s their choice. They can come back when they want, but you know, they don’t love our country, I think in some cases they hate our country.
 And it’s so angry, even yesterday they went on the stage. I said, “Let me watch this.” And the anger, they were trying to be nice, but it’s hard. It’s hard for them to do that. That choice for every American has never been more clear. That’s true. The Democrat agenda is anti worker, anti jobs, anti citizen anti-family and anti common sense. With the exception of all of those Democrats that voted for us today, we’ll give them up, okay? They’re fine, they’re fine. They are fine and you’ll lose to them, it’s different. It’s okay. It’s called normal political back and forth.
 But I want to tell you something, the Democrats are being violent, so vicious, moving so far left, it’s out of control. It’s out of control. The Republican agenda is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100% pro-American.
 USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.
 So we’re thrilled tonight to be joined by several North Carolina Republican leaders. Really great people. They’ve been so helpful to me and they’re doing an incredible job. Lieutenant Governor, Dan Forest, Lieutenant Governor. North Carolina, Treasurer Dale Folwell. Greenville Mayor, PJ Connelly, I hear he does a good job, PJ. And North Carolina GOP Chair, Michael Whatley.
 I want to also [inaudible 00:40:03] three months when we needed him most, Senator Tom. Thank you Tom, you really have. You’ve been really good and we got to get out and work and make sure he gets reelected. And also, senators Mark Walker and [inaudible 00:40:25]. And two friends of mine that decide hoax of impeachment, where they could bask in the glory of victory. I said, “Stay back.” [inaudible 00:40:53] is here right now. [inaudible 00:41:06] incredible NCAA wrestling champion, great guy. He wanted to stay back.
 I said, “You sure you don’t want to come?” “I do want to come, but I really want you to win today, if you don’t mind.” I said, “Okay, you better stay back. If I see you here I’m going to be very angry.” And they did their job, didn’t they? This man is from the great state of Ohio, Congressman Jim Jordan. We’re going to do this quickly, but it’s just important that you get out and vote, they’re two great people. I want to introduce the next member of Congress from North Carolina’s third congressional district, just won a great race, Dr. Greg Murphy. Greg is a winner.
 Thank you President Trump for coming back to Eastern, North Carolina. This is Trump country. I promise if elected your congressman, I will be a congressman that has our president’s back. The third district is not going to elect another Pelosi congressman, it is not going to do that. We thank him for coming eastern North Carolina and we are here to support him. Thank you all.
 So you know Greg would be great on jobs, all the things you want, tough on crime, strong on borders, pushing the wall, he’ll be pushing it like nobody. We’re building the wall but we’re pushing it. It’s like pulling teeth. We’ve got six lawsuits on the wall, we’ve won two of them, we’re going to win others. But you think it’s easy, don’t you folks, you think this is easy? But we’re building a lot of wall and we hope if we can win that final one, it’s so important it’s going before the Supreme Court, we’ll have over 400 miles of wall built by the end of next year.
 So go out, get Greg elected. Great victory, by the way, that was a great primary and a great victory. That same day there’s another crucial election in North Carolina’s 9th… Right, you know what we’re talking about? 9th, I know it’s not here, but it’s very close, right? 9th Congressional district. The Democrat in the race is an ultra liberal named Dan McCready, he wants to take away your guns, he wants to raise you taxes, he doesn’t care about borders, he likes open borders. And he really admires socialism, I don’t think that works too well in North Carolina.
 Doesn’t work too well in our country. We’re joined tonight by the Republican candidate who is really a special man, a great man, he’s going to be a great, great Congressman, Dan Bishop. Dan?
 So as President Trump said, there are two Dans in this race. Dan McCready said that Donald Trump is the greatest threat to democracy ever and backed crooked Hillary. Dan McCready took money from Ilhan Omar. And Mr. President, Dan McCready wants to repeal your tax cuts. Now, he would be the wrong Dan. As for me, I’m going to go to Washington, and I’m going to stand with President Donald J. Trump, and that makes me the right Dan. And with the help of President Trump, we’re going to win the 9th district. So go to votedanbishop.com sign up and help. Thank you ladies and gentleman.
 Thank you, Dan. Thank you Dan. And he will indeed defend your values, your family, and he will always defend our second amendment unlike the opponents. They’re really into destroying our second amendment. Who’ve been violently operating for more than 10 years, we got them all, we think they are no good. With conducting brutal, medieval style killings, you know what medieval style is? Okay. Little pieces, little pieces, little pieces, medieval style, including the dismemberment of their victims, and they enjoyed every minute of it. These are sick people.
 When I call them animals, Nancy Pelosi said, “How dare he used that name? These are human beings.” I don’t think they’re human beings. Most of those indicted were in our country illegally, 19 to be exact, 19 of 22. Think of that, they want to protect… These are savage beasts, these are savage killers, and they should’ve been brought out a long time ago by the Obama administration. We’re bringing MS-13 out by the thousands, getting them the hell out of our county.
 And when you read about deportation and Sunday, we’ve got a lot of people on Sunday, but we have a lot of people… and we’re always shooting for the bad ones first. Which makes sense, right, but when you hear about that, we always want to get… And by the way, do you know how dangerous it is for these ICE agents, these ICE and border patrol? But ICE, they go into a nest, they call it a nest, a nest of these killers. They’re tough, they’re smart, and you know what, they’re great patriots, they love our country. The danger that they have is incredible.
 And I just want to salute… and I have to tell you, I want to salute ICE and border patrol, and I want to support and salute law enforcement in the United States. These are great people. These are great people and they don’t get the credit that they deserve, but you know what? I tell them all the time, you have no idea how much the American people, the American public, you have no idea how much they love you and respect you, law enforcement. In the recent democratic debate, every single candidate, everyone, Biden was a little bit slower with the hand, it didn’t work so well.
 They raised their hand in favor of giving free government healthcare. They raised their hand in giving a lot of other things that I don’t think you’re going to be happy with, illegal aliens will be very nicely covered. How about California, they just approved a $100 million? They just approved $100 million to take care of the needs of illegal immigrants, and then you look on the sidewalks of Los Angeles, the sidewalks of San Francisco, Nancy Pelosi’s district, nobody’s ever seen anything like it in the history of our country what’s happening there.
 So if you don’t want Democrats to raid your healthcare, to steal away your money, to bankrupt your country, then you have a choice, you must vote Republican. All American citizens, including millions and millions of legal immigrants who work hard to come into our country, who study, who wait on line sometimes for 10 years, and who respect our laws and follow the rules, they deserve a government that is loyal to them. They work hard. You can’t say you love our country if you want to destroy it through open borders, open borders are a disaster.
 Human trafficking, the first time I heard as a politician, human trafficking, nobody talks about it, it sounded almost like an ancient crime, many, many years ago, hundreds of years, thousands of years ago, human trafficking, it’s the worst now throughout the world because of the Internet, it’s the worst it’s ever been. And the worst treated of all, children, but it’s women, women, the Democrats want to do nothing about it. Human trafficking is worse than it ever has been in the history of the world, not just… This is not a United States problem, this is all over the world.
 Human trafficking, it’s a terrible, terrible thing and we got to solve it. Most of it comes through, in this country, our southern border where we don’t have the wall. They’re not going through our points, they’re not going through areas where we have security, where we have guards, where we have gates, where we have all sorts of equipment, no, they ride through the desert and they make a left where you don’t have the wall. It’s so simple, everybody knows it. The Democrats all know it because five years ago before I was here, they all wanted it.
 Now they don’t want it, you know why they don’t want it? For political reasons, and you know what, it’s going to cost them a lot of points in the election, I think probably cost them the election itself. Just lastly, Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities which release violent criminal aliens onto our streets. Where we just picked up these 22 thugs, these 22 monsters, we just picked him up in, where, Los Angeles. Sanctuary city, wonderful sanctuary city.
 Thom Tillis senator recently introduced a bill to give American victims the right to pursue sanctuary cities and hold them accountable for the thousands of lives they have shattered, they’ve shattered these lives. Thank you very much Thom. Every nation has the right to establish and enforce immigration rules in it’s national interest, it’s very simple, isn’t it? It’s common sense, it’s so simple and the voters understand that. We expect that those who seek to join our society will obey our laws, revere our constitution, cherish our history, support themselves financially, and embrace our American values and love our American flag.
 We believe in an immigration system based on merit, merit, where they come in. We have so many companies coming in, automobile companies, companies of all types, and we need workers. We actually need workers. We have the lowest unemployment rate that we’ve had in 51 years, soon it’ll be the lowest ever. We need workers, but they have to come in where they can help our country. They have to come in based on merit, and we’re putting in bills and let’s see what happens.
 Otherwise, we’ll just wait til we win back the house, win the Senate, win the Presidency, and we’ll vote. Democrats have never been farther outside of the mainstream. They’re going crazy folks, they’re going crazy. More than 130 Democrats in Congress have signed up for Bernie Sanders total government takeover of healthcare, isn’t that nice? This is one of the great… It won’t happen, he knows that. The guy never passed the bill, he did nothing.
 He’s actually not even a Democrat, isn’t he an independent? I don’t know, he’s running but… He missed his time. Hey Bernie, let me save you a lot of time and effort, Bernie, you missed your time. It got taken from you four years ago, Bernie. Not doing too well. He’s not doing too well, but that’s okay. I got to hand it to him he’s up there ranting and raving and going like a lunatic. I said to our first lady the other day, I was watching Bernie and he’s screaming, his hair’s all crazy, I’m going to do this, I’m going to do that, no more college loans, no more cost for anything.
 Nothing, you’re not going to pay for anything. He’s desperate now, he’s desperate. You don’t have to pay for anything. I joke, I said, “And everybody will get a free Rolls-Royce, every family gets a free Rolls-Royce, every family. And the media said, “Donald Trump is exaggerating. He knows that they’re not getting a Rolls-Royce.” I’m sorry, don’t put it. Don’t put that I said Free Rolls Royce. But Bernie’s desperate now, I watch him up there it’s a sad situation. But I think they’re all sad when you get right down to it.
 For instance, we’re in this incredible state North Carolina, that you have your best economy that you’ve ever had. Forget the country for a second, you have the best economy you’ve ever had, you have your best unemployment numbers, you had the most people working than at any time in the history of your state, you have your best black unemployment numbers, best Hispanic unemployment numbers, best women unemployment numbers, best Asian unemployment numbers. Whoever the opponent is, what are they going to do is just say, “North Carolina, I’m going to do a great job.
 You have the best numbers in the history of our country in your state, so I don’t know, and we won by a lot. And we won by a lot I was telling Mike, I was telling my son Eric Trump and Lara’s here, y the way, who was born in North Carolina. They do a good job. Lara, do you love this state? And her brother’s here, I have to tell you, he went to this college. And Brad Parscale is here, the worlds tallest campaign manager in the history of the world. He’s the tallest in the history, but most importantly, he’s the best. The worlds tallest manager but he’s the best manager.
 Thank you, Brad. Great job. And he just told me our poll numbers are through the roof, he just told me that so I’ll take that. We are a year and a half away, but we’re doing well, you see it. You’d know, you’d be the first to know. Number one, you wouldn’t be here, you wouldn’t be here. We haven’t had an empty seat in any event, I don’t believe, that we’ve ever been to, I don’t think we’ve ever had… we always have people, we haven’t had an empty seat. You look anywhere, North Carolina, Ohio, no matter where we go we pack it and we have thousands and thousands of people, we put screens outside.
 I know tonight’s not so good, we got a hundred degrees out, but you still have thousands of people out there. We could have sold this arena out, you know that. We could have sold this arena out tonight 10 times, can you believe that? 10 times. I think that’s like a poll, that’s like a poll because when Biden goes out I see Sleepy Joe and he says, “They had 115 people show up, 115 people. That’s our first row.” The democratic record on healthcare is one of deception and destruction, the last administration said a lie.
 If you like your plan, you can keep your plan, if you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor, 28 times, a total lie. My administration is defending your sacred right to choose the doctor and the plan that you want, and we are offering plans up to 60% cheaper than Obamacare, and a lot of people are starting to figure that out. Better healthcare. And we’ll also always protect… You have to remember this, you ready, because they give us a bum rap. Patients with preexisting conditions are protected by Republicans much more so than protected by Democrats who will never be able to pull it off.
 Preexisting conditions, and you know, the job we’ve done on healthcare, it’s not talked about, but we’re also doing something. It’s been phenomenal, we have 180 million people right now really happy on private plans, and you know what, they’re going to be taken away. Under the Democrats plan all of those people that are thrilled where they went out and negotiated cross state lines, all of the things they did, they went out, negotiated great private plans, it’s all going to be taken away from you under this plan. Now, I only hope they don’t change because we’re talking too soon, we got a year and a half left.
 It’s like when I called Pocahontas, Pocahontas, I should’ve waited six months because she then went out and got that test. 1024th, and I’ve always said I have more Indian blood in me than she has in her, and I have none. I have none, but it’s more than she has, 1024. I brought it up too soon so I don’t talk about it anymore, but if she should be the candidate, which I tend to doubt, but if she should be we’ll bring it up again and I think it will be very successful. 1024, how about this, I was driving her crazy, so she went out and hired a guy to check the blood.
 I’m sure he had a lot of fun doing that. He checked her blood and found out that many, many, many, many, many, many years ago, there could have been somebody and he could have been Indian. And then the Indians got together and they said, “We don’t want her.” We want Trump, we want Trump, they want Trump. We’ve taken historic action to fight the opioid epidemic, what a problem, and just today it was just announced before I came in, that drug overdose deaths… we’re working so hard on this, including our vice president, including our first lady, including everybody in the Trump administration, it’s dropped for the first time in more than 30 years, it’s gone down. First time, it was a big problem.
 And in North Carolina and we’re far from finished, it’s a big problem, it declined 8% last year. That’s a lot because it was just going up like a rocket. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb right up until the moment of birth. Well then you have the gentleman from… our governor from Virginia, so we’re talking about late term, he’s talking about the baby is born before the mother makes the decision. That’s the first I’ve heard of it, that’s the first most of you have heard of it, and then they pass legislation in various states saying that’s okay.
 This is a baby that’s born, this isn’t late term. This is a baby that’s born. Nobody’s ever heard anything like that, nobody’s ever seen anything like it. Nobody’s ever seen anything like it. And that actually, when he had the scandal, that became, can you believe it? The second biggest story. Can you believe that, how important it is and yet that was the second biggest story, and what a shame when that’s the second biggest story. What happened to our values? Republicans believe that every life is a sacred gift of God. That’s why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion of babies.
 Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion intolerance and division. The Republican Party is the party for all Americans and American values. We are the party of the American worker, the American family, and we are the party of the American dream. This is the proud banner the Republican Party will carry into the Republican National Convention next summer in the great city of Charlotte, North Carolina. Don’t disappoint me, that should be good for at least 10 points, right? These are some of the greatest ladies, I see them in Ohio, and Florida.
 We love you too, thank you, really. How many have you been to, just out of curiosity? What’s the number? All but two, I’ve done hundreds of them. And then they say women don’t like Trump, I think they do. Now I see them, they’re great. Great ladies, you’re great. It’s interesting with women, so women want to have a strong military protection, they want to have strong borders, they want to have strong law enforcement, they want to have great education, they want to have low taxes for their family, not high taxes. They want to have all the things that we talk about, why wouldn’t they want Trump more than anybody else?
 The other side is going to go the opposite. And they did in the last election, and we’re doing a lot better. The difference is, the last election I was a successful businessman running for president, I said I was going to do things. And by the way, really successful. I’m going to show you something someday soon, I’m going to show you something. They say he was really successful, he wasn’t successful, he’s really smart, or he’s really stupid but he’s trying to take over the world.
 They have so many messages, he’s really stupid, then next week, Donald Trump has a sinister plot to take over the world, he can’t be too stupid, because they actually think it’s working. I saw one of these so-called comedians the other day and he’s a pretty respected comedian, he said, he’s not leaving. I’m telling you, he’s not leaving, he’ll never live. He’ll win this election and in 24′, I’m telling you, he’s not leaving. He’s going to stay. So we did through our friend Dan Scavino, we did a Time Magazine cover. I was on so many times, I don’t even read this thing, and it says, Trump, 2014, 2018.
 But it says 20 here’s where we go, we start at 16, we go to 20, we go to 24, did you see it? Then it says 28, 32, 36, 40, 42. No, we don’t need any more time. We don’t need any more time, we need one more. A senator came to my office, sir, I’m six foot seven, I’m great. I’m six foot seven so I can give you great advice. I said, “Senator, I’m one for one but it happened to be the president.” And now I want to be two for two, two for two. Two for two, so we have 16, we have 20, we have 24, and you know what’s very interesting though? They were really people out there think I’m not leaving, can you believe it?
 Hey, maybe that is a good idea, let’s think about it. Watch, you want to drive them crazy, they’re going to go crazy. All I have to do is say, “Let’s think about it. They’re going to go crazy. No, I promise 2024, I leave. By that time, just so you know, by that time our country will be so well seated, it will be so strong like never, ever, in our history. But everything that we built, low taxes, strong military, taking care of our vets, all of the things we’ve done can be decimated very quickly if the wrong person gets in especially now.
 I’ve always said 2016 was the most important election maybe in the history of our country, a lot of people felt that. So I don’t know, I can’t say this is more important, what we did was a miracle. Not to us it wasn’t, but a lot of people said it was the greatest election we’ve ever had. There’s never been anything like it, never been such excitement. Never been such excitement. But you know what, if we don’t win in 2020 everything that we’ve done, seriously though, everything that we’ve done, your 401’s are going to crash, the whole thing, it’s going to come down like a stack of cards.
 So, in a certain way, let’s say this is of equal importance, by that time we’ll have values instilled, we’ll have free enterprise instilled, people are working now. We have the lowest food stamps that we’ve had in many years, lowest food stamps because people are working. So I really think it’s at least equal, it’s equal, maybe it’s a little less, who the hell knows? I just know this, it can disappear very, very quickly. We have to get out, we have to vote.
 That’s why I’m starting early, can you believe it? We have less… I see all these clowns on television I say I guess we have to counteract them a little bit, but this is not what you want running, none of them, this is not what you want running this incredible country of ours. Every day we make good on the motto, promises made, promises kept. I’ve had people back there that don’t like me and somebody said, very nicely, that he’s actually made certain promises and he’s actually kept more promises than he’s made. It’s true.
 I’ve done things that I never… I never said we were going to get, as an example with our vets, that we going to get, Joyce, that we were going to have the ability to fire people that don’t treat our vets properly. We can fire them now. They’ve been trying to get that for 44 years, Joyce had been trying to get practically from the beginning, Joyce’s so simple and yet they never got it, nobody got it through. We’re good at getting things through. We’ve done more than we said we would. A man I know, who I don’t like, a businessman, very, very, very successful, one of the most successful but I don’t like him, never liked him.
 He never liked me, by the way. In fact, I would go a step further, he cannot stand me. And I saw him about two months ago and he came up to me, I said, “How are you doing?” Very warm, hey, how you doing? Let’s get out of here. And he said, “I’m doing good, you’re doing good?” I said, “Yeah.” I said, “You don’t like me, and I don’t like you. I never have liked you, and you never have liked me, but you’re going to support me because you’re a rich guy. And if you don’t support me you’re going to be so goddamn poor you’re not going to believe it.”
 And he said to me, “Mr. President.” He calls me Mr. President, everybody calls me Mr. President, it’s true, it’s a funny thing. He said, “Mr. President, you’re right, I’m supporting you, I think you’re doing a great job. And maybe we didn’t get along.” But it’s not like he has a choice, he has no choice. And on top of that, it’s a good choice because we’ve done the right thing. And it is funny with the name Mr. President, I have friends, really good friends, and they’ve always called me Don, Donald, D, they call me anything, and you lose all your friends when you’re president because they’re all afraid to talk to you, does that make sense?
 No, it’s true. Except for these six, seven, ladies up here, they always talk. They’re not intimidated. No, it’s true, I have guys, I have wonderful friends, New York developers, tough guys, smart guys, they’re rich, they’re this, that. I have middle of the road, I have poor, I have everybody. I have poor guys, middle of the road, and rich guys, doesn’t matter. Rich guys call up, “Mr. President, how are you sir? It’s Richard.” Oh, good, Rich, hey Richard, loosen up. This is a guy who used to, “Hey Don, how you doing? Let’s go to dinner.” Now you’re, “Sir, is everything… you’re doing good, sir.”
 I said, “Richard, call me Donald like you always did, call me Donald. Always call me Donald.” Okay, thank you Donald, thank you very much. And then two minutes later, Mr President, it’s been so great to… I lost all my friends. They’ve tightened up, they’ve choked. You know what that is, they choked. They can’t breathe because people have such respect for the office of the presidency, they have respect for the office of the president. They have respect for our country again, our country is respected again.
 We’ve confirmed more than 125 federal judges to apply the law as written, including two supreme court justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. We’ve launched a historic initiative to reduce the price of prescription drugs, and last year, I’m so proud of this because we have no help from the Democrats. Last year, for the first time in over 50 years, drug prices went down. And that was for a reason. To give former prisoners a second chance at life, we passed groundbreaking, criminal justice reform. It’s a big thing, prisoners they’ve gotten out of jail and they never had an economy like this.
 We did a lot of things, because they get out jail they don’t have a chance. They always go back, most of the time. Now they’re coming out and we have programs, but most of all we have this great economy where people are hiring prisoners, and you have to see the reviews they’re getting, they getting phenomenal reviews. It’s a beautiful thing, it’s a beautiful thing what’s happening with prisoners, they get out and they can actually get a job and that’s what’s happening and we’re very proud of them. We’re expanding opportunities zone so that no American is left behind, it’s one of the great successes the opportunity zones.
 Nobody talks about it, it’s one of the great successes. And thanks to our pledge to America’s workers, private sector partners will provide apprenticeships and job training to 9 million Americans, isn’t that nice? Whenever I hear that word apprentice, I say I love that word, that was a good show. They figured, you know what we’ll do, we’ll get Arnold Schwarzenegger to take my place, that didn’t work out too well. That didn’t work out too well, we had 14 seasons, think of that, The Apprentice. I’ve proudly signed for bi-partisan human trafficking laws securing $400 million dollars to support victims of human trafficking.
 And we have secured, soon to be three years, record funding for our military. We want to cut budgets, but this is beyond budget. I withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided, disgusting Iran nuclear deal, and Iran is a different country today than it was. My administration proudly recognized the true capitol of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. That was some day, they all said, “Many, many presidents have said, “We’re going to do it.” Then they never did.” I know why, because the pressure on them was enormous not to do it.
 And then on top of it, a couple of months ago, I just approved the Golan Heights for Israel. The Golan Heights, another thing. 52 years they tried to do that, they didn’t get it done, so we’re doing good. We also recognize the legitimate government of Venezuela and we condemn those that want to stop freedom in that country and other countries. Tonight we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country, will never, ever, be a socialist country, it just won’t happen. A vote for any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction of the American dream.
 Frankly, the destruction of our country, that’s what’s going to happen. Take a look around, their party is afflicted with an ideological sickness that protects foreign borders, but refuses to protect our own borders. Think of it, they fight all over though a lot of those people are coming back home folks, they’re coming back home a lot. We defeated ISIS, the Caliphate in Syria, we’re bringing our soldiers back home. ISIS does not like me too much, but I came here and it was a mess. It was a mess. I met with generals, general believe it or not, one general, his name is Raisin. I said, “What’s your name?”
 Sir. This guy’s like out of a movie. Watch, he’s going to be famous after this but who cares? What’s your name? And he goes, “Sir, my name is Raisin.” I said, “Raisin, like you mean a little raisin?”. Yes sir, it’s my name, that’s what they call me. What’s your last name? Kane. I said, “You mean your name is Raisin Kane?” I said, Raisin Kane, you’re my kind of general. Let me talk to you Raisin Kane, get over here.” And my previous general said, “It’s going to be a long time before we take out the caliphate.”
 I said, did Raisin Kane and a couple of other generals that were there, these guys are central casting like from a movie, except better. They’re stronger, bigger, tougher, meaner, and actually better looking in a certain way. But they’re like from a movie, there is nobody in Hollywood plays a role like this. I said, “Generals, I’ve been told it’s going take a year, two years, to get a 100%.” Remember I want to pull them out, we’re down to 1%, and everyone went crazy, explain that one. But they said it was going to take a long time. I said to Raisin Kane and the other generals, “General, how long can it take?
 They said, “Sir, one month.” I said, “What?” We’re going to hit them from the front, we’re going to hit them from the back, we’re going to hit them from the, sir, we’re going to hit them like they never got hit before, we were never allowed to do this. And we’re not just going to hit them from our temporary base in Syria, sir, we’re going to hit him from Iraq, we’re going to hit them from places that they never knew existed, sir. They’ll be hit so Goddamn hard sir, they will be… Thank you very much.
 Very shortly, very, very shortly, it was over, we had a 100% of the Caliphate, and these people we’re screwing around for years. Obama, President Obama. My generals did a great job, I flew there, I flew to Iraq, remember? I’m an Air Force One and they notified me, “Sir, we’re 45 minutes out, sir. We have to close all windows, we have to turn off all lights in the plane, sir. All windows, all lights have to be off, sir. We’re turning off the lights outside and the runway light, sir. They going to be in a very dim”… Frankly, if you’re not at 30-year old pilot you can’t see them, because I went there, I said, “I don’t see any light pilot.” As we’re landing, I said, “I don’t see.”
 And then I thought to myself, think of it, we’ve spent almost $8 trillion in the Middle East and we got to turn off the lights of an airplane to land, how bad is that? They didn’t do their job. We did our job, and the military did their job. But we fight to short of just keep going, we don’t fight to win, I fight to win. I fight to win. So we land in this big, beautiful Air Force One and I’m saying, “Major, I don’t see a runway.” Yes sir, it’s right up ahead, the guy’s 30 years old or something. They’ll get me that, they’ll say majors aren’t 30, maybe he’s 35 whatever he is. They’re saying, “Yes sir, it’s right there.”
 I don’t see it major, how about lifting up, let’s go around. That’s the last thing we want to do in that part of the world. He said, “Sir, it’s right there, sir.” And we’re landing and I still haven’t seen a light. But these guys, we have the greatest pilots in the world, we have the greatest military in the world, we have the greatest equipment in the world. So you must never forget the 2020 election is all about one thing, you. It’s about you. It’s about your family, it’s about your future, and the fate of your beautiful, loving, country, and that’s what it is.
 We begin our North Carolina campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda, and the only positive vision for our nation’s future. We love our nation, our nation is great today. It’s going to be much greater, every year it’s getting better, and better. We have turned this big, beautiful, mighty ship, we have turned it around, it’s getting better, better, better. Together we will continue on unleashing the power of American enterprise so every American can know the dignity of work and the pride of a paycheck.
 With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress, those great gentlemen that just left the stage. To create a safe, modern fair and lawful system of immigration, we will enact trade deals and they are going like you won’t even believe. That doesn’t mean the other countries are thrilled with me, there was a recent poll, Germany likes Obama better than Trump. A lot better. I said, “Of course, because [inaudible 01:26:23] positive vision for our nation’s future. We love our nation, our nation is great today. It’s going to be much greater, every year it’s getting better, and better.
 We have turned this big, beautiful, mighty ship, we have turned it around. It’s getting better, better, better. Together we will continue unleashing the power of American enterprise so every American can know the dignity of work and the pride of a paycheck. With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress, those great gentlemen that just left the stage. To create a safe, modern, fair and lawful system of immigration, we will enact trade deals and they are going like you won’t even believe. That doesn’t mean the other countries are thrilled with me, there was a recent poll, Germany likes Obama better than Trump.
 A lot better. I said, “Of course, because I’m making them pay their bills.” I’m saying you got to pay. I say, “Anguilla, Anguilla, you got to pay, Anguilla.” Obama would go in, make a speech, leave. I go in and make a speech, I say, Let me speak to Anguilla. Anguilla you got to pay your bills, you’re way behind.” So I would think that they should, they should all like… When you hear they like me better, I’m not doing my job. It’s true, I’m not doing my job. They did a poll on one of these networks, and they would say, “Donald Trump is not liked in Europe nearly as much as President Obama.”
 I said, “Or President Bush, or anybody.” In fact I’m disliked, but actually they respect us, that’s more important. Look at that beautiful baby, look at that beautiful baby. Wow, what a baby? What a baby? That is a beautiful baby. That’s like from an advertisement, perfect. Look how happy that baby is, so beautiful. Thank you darling, that’s really nice. It’s a great thing, is that your husband? That’s a great thing, thank you. Congratulations husband. What a picture? But we’re going to have the country all set for your child, okay? Awesome, because that’s what it’s about.
 Now the media will say that’s a prop, they say no baby is so beautiful. That had to be a set up. I never saw that guy in my life, which is true. Thank you. Good luck. Thank you very much. We will enact trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with those four beautiful words, made in America, made in the USA, either one is okay with me. Keep America great, that’s right. We will give school choice to millions of underserved children who are trapped in failing government schools. We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.
 They’re going to take your guns away. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one great nation, as one America. It’s one America. We believe in the American constitution and we believe in the rule of law, we believe in the dignity of work and in the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way. We believe that children, like your child, should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.
 And we live by the words of our national motto, “In God we trust.” We are fighting for every American mom and dad who wants to protect this land of liberty for their precious children. We have been blessed with the greatest republic on the face of the earth, but it was going in the wrong direction, and now we are turning it around, it is going better than ever before and we going to keep it that way. We’re going to keep it that way. With your help, with your devotion, with your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning.
 We are one movement, one movement, think of that, we are one big beautiful movement. There has never been a movement like this, you don’t hear it that often. They know it but you don’t hear… In the history of our country, there has never been a movement like this, and this movement is stronger now than it was three years ago. This is the strongest movement in the history of our country. But we are, we’re one movement, we’re one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. We’re doing things that nobody thought was possible, no other nation thought it was possible what we’re doing.
 We are so respected, you have no idea how our nation has gone so far up in the eyes and the minds of the rest of the world. So respected. Because together, we will make America wealthy again, of course, we did just hit the highest price in the history of the market. So pretty soon, and I hate to say, I don’t want to ruin the rhetorical skill, but that is sort of like getting a little obsolete, we will make our nation wealthy again. The fact is we have the strongest stock market in our history, so I think I’ll have to change it.
 You’ve all heard it many times, right, we will make America wealthy again, we’re going to have to say, “We have made America wealthy again.” So here’s one, we will make America strong again. No, no, we’re going to have to change this, we have made America strong again. And just so you know, we have made America great again. Give up MAGA. How do you give up MAGA? Make America great again, but we’ve done that. Can you imagine if keep America great didn’t work? I had the greatest phrase probably in the history of politics in this country.
 Look at her beautiful hat, it looks very good on you. But look at this, look at those beautiful hats. Make America great again, but we’ve done that. Our new phrase for the 2020 campaign is, “Keep America Great.” Thank you.
